也 
Fully Revised and Expanded! 
e _VQcabulary
_
Builder in the English Language! c_ tiv 
Wo『dPower 



IdeE匈
Nonnan Lewis 
The simple, step-by-step method that will increase your knowledge and mastery of the English Language. 
TheCom恩eteHandbookfor

Building a Superior Vocabulary 
. Speak and write with confidence. 
. Read more effectively and efficiently. 
. Learn quickly. 
. Develop social contacts. 
. Increase your earning power. 



TEST YOUR VOCABULARY RANGE 
Ea,ch of these ph roses contains one italicized word. Check the closest definition of each such wo『d. To keep your score valid, refrain, as far as possible, from wild guessing. 
1-disheveled appearance: (a) untidy, (h) fierce, (cl foolish, (d) pecul"ar, (e) unhappy 
2. a baffling problem: (a) difficult, (b) simple, (cl puzzling, (d) long, (e) new . 
3. lenient parent: (a) tcill, (b) not strict, (c) wise, (d) foolish, (el severe 
4. repulsive personality: (a) disgusting, (b) attractive, (c) normal, 


(d) confused, (e) conceited 
S. audacious attempt: (a) useless, (b) bold, {c)foolish, (d) crazy, 
(e) necessary 

6. parry a blow: (a) ward off, (b) fear, (c) expect, (d) invite, 
(e) ignore 
7. prevalent disease: (a) dangerous, (b) catching, (c) childhood, 

(d) fatal, (e) widespread 
8. ominous report: (a) loud, (b) threatening, (cl untrlle, (d) serious, (el unpleasant 
9. an incredible story: (a) true, (bl interesting, (c) well-known, 

(d) unbelievable,-(e) unknown 
10. an ophthalmologist: (a) eye doctor, (b) skin doctor, (cl foot doctor, (d) heart doctor, (e) cancer specialist 
11. will supersede the old law: (a) enforce, (bl specify penalties for, (c) take the place of, (d) repeal, (el continue 
12. an anonymous donor: (a) generous, (bl stingy, (cl well-known, (dl one whose name is not known, (e) reluctant 
13. perfarmed an autopsy: (a) examination of living tissue, (b) examinatian of a corpse to -determine the cause of death, (c) process in the manufacture of optical lenses, (dl operation to cure an organic disease, (el series of questions to determine the causes of delinquent behavior 
14. an indefatigable worker: (al well-paid, (bl tired, (c) skillful, (dl tireless, (e) pleasant 
15. a confirmed athei比（a)ba：：helor, (b) disbeliever in God, (cl believer in religion, (d) believer in science, (el priest 


















，
／｀ 

POCKET BOOKS 


The sale of this book without its cover is unauthorized. If you purchased this book without a cover, you should be aware that it was reported to the publisher as "unsold and destroyed." Neither the author nor the publisher has received payment for the sale of this "stripped book." 
For information regarding special discounts for bulk purchases, please contact Simon & Schuster Special Sales at 1-800-456-6798 or busines.,.simonandschuster..mo

The extract from "Be a Perfect Speller in 30 Minutes," by Nonnan Lewis, is copyright, 1946, by Esquire, Inc. Reprinted from February 1946 Coronet. The extract from "How to Spell a Word," by Nonnan丘wis,ois copyright, 1948, by Esquire, Inc. Reprinted加moJanuary 1949 Coronet, The extract from "Mind Over Grammar," byNonnan Lewis, is copyright, 1947, by Fawcett Publications. Inc. The extract from "Can You Catch a Misspelled Word," by Nonnan Lewis, is copyright, 1948, by Fawcett Publications, Inc. The extract from "Watch That Word," by Nonnan Lewis, is copyright, 1948, by Fawcett Publications, Inc. 



占 POCKET BOOKS, a division of Simon & Schuster, Inc. 1230 Avenue of the Americas, New Yorlc, NY 10020 


Copyright 1949, . 1978 by Norman Lewis All rights reserved, including the right to reproduce 
this book or ponions thereof in any fonn whatsoever. For information a迦ssoDoubleday and Company, Inc., 245 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10017 

ISBN -13: 978-0-671-74190-7 ISBN -10: 0-671-74190-X

First Pocket Boo比printing(revi心edoedition) Augui.t 197'1 
50 49 48 POCKET and col叩honare registered叩lemarksofoSimon & Schuster, Inc. 





TO: 
My family and friends, who accepted, without apparent resent-ment and with barely audible complaint, my complete self-isola-tion during the many months in which I totally and shamefully neglected them while working on the revision of this book. 
Especially: Mary; Margie Baldinger and the kids; Debbie and Allen Hubbert; Milton Lewis; Karen and Bob Kopfstein; Leonard 

Vogel, one of America's great painters, and Shirley; gourmet cooks David and Janice Potts; Seymour and Nan Prog; Ruth and Leo; Dave and Jan Hopkins; Carol and MatYin Colter; Bob Fin-nerty, my chess opponent, who says that winning is all that counts; Doris Garcia; Eleanor and Robert Poitou; Mary El and Dick Gayman一 

Walter Garcia, Len Grandy, Don Jenkins; Sally Landsburg;Ted and Margaret Snyder; J血Bryan; Rhoda and Ralph Duene-wald; George and Phyllis Juric; Bob and Monica Myers, Tony and Kathy Garcia, Jean Kachaturian; Margie Lopez and Jo Wat-son一 
Myrtle and Ace, Donny and Estelle, Helen and Ben, Judy and Bob, Doris and Muriel, Danny and Mary; in memoriam, Max and Frances--
Larry Scher, Chuck Nichamin, Sue Sullivan, Rosemary and Debbie Greenman, Alice Hessing, Dave and Lynn Bisset, Danny Hernandez, John Arcadi and Peggy Arcadi, Norm Ashley, Aaron Breitbart一 
Lorin and Gloria Warner, Marty and Ros Chodos, Mahlon and Gwen Woirhaye, Leon and Kay East, Marijane and Paul Paulsen, Helen and Russ Hurford, Elior and Sally Kinarthy珈＿


Carolyn Russell, Rod Sciborski, Vera Laushkin, John Hahn, Liz Johnson, Leonora Davila, Jim Hawley, Jerry Lenington, Jay Loughran, Susan Obler, Marilyn Houseman, Rita Scott, Chris Hamilton, Joan Nay, Mary Lewis, Virginia Sandoval, Hazel Haas-
The staff and all my students at Rio Hondo College-
My editor at Doubleday, Jean Anne Vincent, who so patiently anq cheerfully goaded, prodded, pushed, wheedled, and cajoled me into finishing on血e. 
Also: I wish to thank Karen Kopfstein and Peggy Chulack for their promptness and care in typing the manuscript. 

Whittier, California January 1978 





CONTENTS 


How to Use This Book for Maximum Benefit 双  
Why this is not a book tobe read,・ how to learn to pronounce the new words cor-rectly; how the etymolog如l approach works better than any other method for learning words quicldy and permanently; how to master nouns, verbs, adjectives, and adverbs in five to tenminutes; how to usethe psychological principles of learning to sharpen your verbal skills.  
 
PART ONE GETIING OFF TO A GOOD START  
1. How to Test Your Present Vocabulary  3  
How vocabulary growth of the average adult compares with that of children; a simple. test to show you whether your vo-cabulary is below average, average, above average, excellent, or superior in range, verbal speed, and responsiveness; impor-tant evidence of the close relationship be-tween vocabulary and success.  
 



vii 

y2.eHow to Start Building Your Vocabular 19  
How building your vocabulary will enricheyour thinking, increase your self-assurance in speaking and writing, and give you a better understanding of the world and of yourself; why it is necessary to recapture the "powerful urge to learn"; why your age makes little difference; how this book is designed to build a college-size vocabulary in two to three months.  
3.eHow to Talk about Personality Typese(Sessions 1-3)e 26  
Words that describe all kinds and sorts of people, including terms for self-interest, re-actions to the world, attitudes to others, skill and marital states, hatred of man, of woman, and of marriage. How one session of pleasant work can add more words to your vocabulary than the average adult learns in an entire year; why it is necessary to develop a comfortable time schedule and then stick to it.  
 
4. How to Talk About Docton (Se过ons4-6)e 54  
Words that relate to medical specialists and specialties. Terms for experts in dis--orders of the female organs; clilldhoodediseases; skin ailments; skeletal deformi-ties; heart ・ ailments; disorders of theenerves, mind, and personality. How self-discipline and persistence will ultimatelyelead to complete mastery over words.e ..VIII  






S.How to Talk About Various Prac出ionerse 81  
(Sessions 7..,..10)e 
Words that describe a variety of profes- 
sions, including those dealing with the  
human mind; teeth; vision; feet; handwrit- 
ing; aging; etc. How you are becoming  
more and more conscious of the new  
words you meet in your reading.  
6.eHow to Talk About Science and Scientistse 115  
(Sessions 11-13)e 
Words that describe students of human  
development, of the heavens, of the earth,  
of plant and animal life, of insect forms,  
of words and language, of social organ- 
ization. Books on psychology that will add  
immeasurably both to your store of new  
words and ideas, and also to your under- 
standing of yourself and of other people.  
7, Bow to Talk About Liars and Lying(Sessi0心 14-17)e 148  
Words that accurately label different types  
 
of liars and lying. Terms that relate to  
fame, artistry, reform, heredity, time,  
 
place, suffering, etc. Four lasting benefits  
you have begun to acquire from your work  
in vocabulary building.  
8.eHow to Check Your Progress: Comprehemivee 
Test I (Session 18)e 182  
A 120-item test of your learning in Part I.  









PART TWO 

GAINING INCREASED MOMENTUM 
9.aHow to Talk About Actionsa191 (Sessions 19-23)a

Verbs that accurately describe important human activities. Excursions into expres-sive terms for good and evil, doing, saying, wishing, and pleasing. Further proof that you can learn, in a few weeks or less, more new words than the average adult learns in an entire year. 


10.aHow to Talk About Various Speech Habitsa239 (Sessions 24-27)a
Words that explore in depth all degrees and kinds of talk and silence. }\fore books 
that will increase your alertness to new ideas and new words. 
11, How to Insult Your Enemies 
282 (Sessions 28-31) 

Terms for describing a disciplinarian, 

toady, dabbler, provocative woman, flag-waver, poss_essor of a one-track mind, free-thinker, sufferer from .aginary ailments, etc. Excursions into words relating to father and mother, murder of all sorts, sexual desires, and various manias and phobias. Mag血nesathat will help you build your vocabulary. 
12.aHow to Flatter Your Friendsa341 (Sessions 32-37)a
Terms for describing friendliness, energy, 
honesty, mental kee皿岱s,abravery, charm, 








sophistication, etc. Excursions into expres-sive words that refer to ways of eating and drinking, believing and disbelieving, look-ing and seeing, facing the present, past, and future, and living in the city and country. How the new words you are learning have begun to influence your thinking. 

13.eBow to Check Your Progress: ComprehensiveeTest II (Session 38)e392・ 

A 120-item test of your achievement in Part II. 

PART THREE FINISHING WI1H A FEELING OF COMPLETE SUCCESS 
14.eHow to Talk About Common Phenomena andOccurrences (Ses攻ms39-41)e401 

Words for poverty and wealth, direct and indirect emotions, not calling a spade a spade, banter and other light talk, animal-like contentment, homesickness, meat-eat-ing, and different kinds of 
secrecy. Excur-sions into terms expressive of goodness, of hackneyed phraseology, of human similar-ity to various animals, of kinds of sound, etc. How to react to the new words you meet in 
15.eHow to Talk About What Goes One
451 (Ses劝,ns42-44)e
Verbs that show exhaustion, criticism, self-sacrifice, repetition, mental stagnation, 





indecision, etc. How you can increase your vocabulary by picking your friends'brains.e

16.How to Talk About a VariofPersonalCharacteristics (Ses.劝ms4546)e478 

Adjectives that describe insincere humility, dissatisfaction, snobbery, courtesy to women, finan,cial embarrassment, sadness, etc. How 
increasing your vocabulary has begun to change the intellectual climate of your life. 

17.eHow to Check Your Progress: ComprehensiveeTest m (Session 47)e497 
A 120-item test of your achievement in Part 111. 

18.eHow to Check Your Standing as an AmateureEtymologiste504 
-A邱werseto Teaser Questions in Chapters 3一7,9一12,eand 14-16. 

19.How 
to Keep Building Your Vocabola可e524 



The five siJnple, but vital, steps to take soethat you can keep your vocabulary ever developing, ever increasing. How your vocabulary will continue to grow only if you remain on the search for new ideas. The best means for making this search 
successful. 



Appendix: Some Esoteric Phobias 527 



BR正FINTER江SSIONS

1. Test Your Grammar 51 

A thirty-sentence test of your ability to use words correctly. Is your English average, above average, orne杠lyperfect? 


2. Random Notes onModem Usage 
Grammatical usage is becoming more lib-eral every day-is your speech 
neither affected nor illiterate? Simple rules for fifteen important expressions. 

3. How Grammar Changes 




Grammar follows the speech habits of educated people--how does your・ grammar 

measure up in your use of nine common expressions? 

143
4. HowtoAvoid Being aPurist 
There is no reason for being overprecise in your speech-but do you also avoid barbarisms and illiterate expressions? 


x
・1
・1
・1 


5. How to Speak Naturally 


Nine more expressions of which you must be careful.  
6. Do Yoo Always Use the Proper Word?  279  
A twenty-five sentence check on your in-creasing linguistic ability.  
．tingDerivations 7. Somelnt”必 337  
How words come from the namesof people and places.  
8. How to Spell a Word  441  
Youcaneliminate all your spelling difficul-ties-provided you know the trlclcs.  
9. Take This Spelling Test  476  
Proof that you are,becoming a better speller.  
10. Another Check OD Yonr Spelling Further tests to nail home the correct spell一 ings of common but difficult words.  495  





HOWTOUSETHISBOOK FORMAXIMUMBENEFIT 


1.ethis is not a reading book.... 
Don't read this book! 
Instead, work with it. Write in it, talk aloud to it, talk back to it一useeyour pen or pencil, your voice, not just your eyes and mind. 

Leaming, real learning, g忱seon only through active partici-potion. When a new word occurs in a chapter, say it aloud! (The pho-netic respelling will help you pronounce it correctly.)* 

When you do the matching exercises, use a pen or pencil. Write your respo心囚(Checkethe key that immediately follows each ex-ercise after you have filled in all the answers.) 

When you do the "Yes-No," "True-False," or "Same-Opposite" exercises, use your pen or pencil to indicate the appropriate re-sponse, then check with the key when you have completed the whole exercise. 
When you are asked to fill in words that fit definitions, write your answers; then check the key both to see if you have re-
* The system of pronunciation symbols will be thoroughly explained ine
Section 2 of this chapter.e


sponded with the right word and also to make sure your spelling is correct. 
When you do the R切iewsof Etymologyexercises, make sure to fill in the English word containing the prefix, root, or suffix required-use a chapter word, or any other word that comes to mind. (Coin words if you like!) 
Pay special attention to the Chapter R切iews.sAre the words still fresh in your mind? Do you remember the meaning of each root studied in the previous sessions? In these R或ews,syou are not only testing your learning but also tightening up any areas in which you discover lacks, weaknesses, or lapsesof memory. 


2.smaster the pronunciation system!s
_Saying words aloud, and saying them right, is half the battle insfeeling comfortable and assured with all the new words you are going t. learn. Every word taught is respelled to show its pronun-ciation, so pay close attention to how the phonetic symbols work. 
(a)sFirst, master the "schwa"/s

Almost every English word of two or more syllables containssone or several syllables in which the vowel sound is said very quickly. For example: 
"Linda spoke to her mother about a different idea she had." 
.Read the previous sentence aloud at normal conversatio叫sspeed.s
Read it again. Listen to how the -a of Linda; the -er of mother; the a-of about; the -er and -ent of different; and the -a of idea sound. 
Very quick―very short! Right? Phonetically respelled, these words are represented as: 
1. Linda LIN.-do 

2.smothers・MU1'B:＇匀 
3.sabout仑BOWT's
4.sditf erentsDIF妞妞ts

S.sideaI-DEE勺
The芍mbols"a," called a schwa, represents the quick, short vowel sound in the five words above. 
双i



Now look back at the sentence preceded by an arrow. 
The italicized words are rewritten as: 
1. previo四 PREE'-vee-ase
2. sentence SEN'一tanse
3. aloud今LOWD'e


4. normal NAWR'-mal 
5. conversational kon'-var-SAY'-shan-al You will:find in almost all words that are phonetically 


respelled throughoua t this book. 
Say the five italicized words aloud and make sure you understand how the schwa (a) sounds. 
(b) Next, under劝andeaccent. 
Look at word (5) above: conversational: kon'-var-SAY'-shan-al.eNote that there are two accent marks, one on kon', another on SAY'. Note also that kon'is in lower-case letters, SAY'in capitals. Both syllables are stressed, but the one in capitals (SAY') sounds stronger (or louder) than the one in lower case (kon'). Say con-versational aloud, noting the difference. 
Say these three words, taken from Chapter 3, aloud, noticing the variation in stress between 
the lower-case and the capitalized syllables: 
1.eegomaniacal ee'-go-m己NI'－a-kole
2.ealtercation awl'-t:ir-KA Y'-sh:in 
3.eanthropologicalean'-thr:i-pa-LOJ'仑k:ile


(c)eBe careful of the letter "S" (or "s'') in phonetic respellings.eS (ores) is always hissed, as in see, some, such. After an -n, you will be tempted to buzz (or "voice") the -s, because final -ns is usually pronounced -nz, as in wins, tons, owns, etc. (Say these three words aloud一hearethe z at the end?) Resist the temptation! S (or s) is always hissed in phonetic respellings! 
Say these words aloud: 

1.eambivalenceteam-BIV＇一:;,-fanse
2.eaffluence AF'－I叩－:;inse
3.eopulenceOP'-y已如Se

4. sentenceeSEN'-t:;,ns 






t All unusual words in this chapter are taught in later chapters of the book. 
xvii 


(d))The symbol i or l is pronounced eye, to rhyme with high,)sigh, my, etc., no matter where you find it. For example: 
1. fights FITS 
2.)spy)・spI)
3.)malign)ma-LIN')

4.)civilize)SIV'心－l讫＇ [l)or i (without the top bar) is pronounced as in it, sit, pitch.])


(e))All c<>nsonants have their norm.l sounds.)


Except for G (or g), which is alw叮s)pronounced as in give,)girl, get, go. 

1.)agree)a-GREE' 
2.)pagan)PAY'-g叩 
3.)again今GEN')


(f))The vowel劝unds)are as follows:)SYMBOL EXAMPLE 
1.)A, a)cat (.T) 

2.)E,ewet(W盯）)
3.)I, i忒(SIT))

4. 0,o knot (NOT) 
5.)U,u)nut (NUT) 
6.)AH,ahmartinet (mahr'七NE)T');)
7.)AW,aw)for (FAWR); incorrigible (in-KAWR'-a卡bal))
8.)AY,ay)ate (A YT); magnate (MAG'-nayt) 
9.)EE,eeeq皿l)(EE'-kwal); clandestinely (klan-DES屯n-lee))


lO. 0, 6 
toe (TO); concerto （比n-CHUR＇一to))
11.
00,面book (B心)K);)prurient (PROOR'一ee-ant))

12.)00．的)doom)(DOOM); blue (BL.) 
13.)OW, owabout（吐BOWT'))

14.)OY, oy)soil (SQYL) 
15. ING,ing)taking・(TAYK'-ing) 


(g))T_H or th is pronounced as in thi鸣，・TR)or iii is pro-nounced as in this. 

...
XVIII 







3. a word (or words) on western and eastern pronunciation 

In the New York City area, and in parts of New Jersey and other eastern states, the syllables -ar, -er, -or, -off, and -aw are pronounced somewhat differently from the way they are said in the Midwest and in the West. 
In New York City, for example, the words below are generally pronounced as follows: 
orange AHR'-anj tallc TAWK coffee KAW'-fee sorority sa-RAHR'-;-tee incorrigible in-KAHR宅j今加1 disparage dis-PAR'－司(A asin HAT) merry 
MER'-ee (E as in WET) marry MAR'-ee (A as in HAT) astronaut AS'-tr今nawt' Harry HAR'-ee (A as in HAT) 


In the Midwest and West, on the other hand, the same words areusually said approximately as follows: 
orange AWR'-:;inj 
talk TOK coffee KOF'-ee sorority sa-RAWR'-:;i-tee 

incorrigible in-KA WR'-:;i一ja-bal 
disparage dis-PA皿司 merry MAIR'-ee marry MAIR＇一ee 
astronaut AS'-tr今not' Harry HAIR＇一ee 
Nothing so radical here that a person brought up in Brooklyn or the Bronx cannot understand a native of Los Angeles or San Francisco―it's just that each one thinks the other has an ac-cent! 
In California, for example, Mary, merry, and marry sound al-



most exactly alike--in New York, they are usually heard as quitedilierent words. 
(So, to be sexist for a moment, if the men at a party in Manhat-tan say, "Let's all make merry!", Mary doesn't feel that she is about to seduced by the males!) 

In the phonetic,respellings throughout the book, the'J{estem pronunciations of words with the syllables remarked on above are used. This is done largely because I myself have lived in the Los Angeles area for some fourteen years, and have had to retrain my pronunciation (having come from New York City, where I was born, and lived all my life until 1964) so that my friends and stu-dents would stop making fun of the way I speak. Neither form of pronunciation is any better any more euphonious than the other. 
Throughout the country, pronun-nor ciation varies not only from region to region or state to state, but often from city to city! The changes are slight and subtle, but they 
do exist, and an expert can easily pinpoint the geographical source of a person's language patterns almost down to a few square_ miles m area. 
If yon are an Easterner, you will have no difficulty translating the pronunciations of weirds lilce .orority, inco示gible,edisparage, and astronaut (all words discussed in later chapters) into your own comfortable language patterns. 
4.ewhy etymology?e
Etymolo盯（et'-a-MOL令-jee)edeals with the・ origin 
or deriva-tion of words. 
When you know the meaning of a root (for example, Latin ego, I or self), you can better understand, and more easily remember, all the words built on this root. 
Learn one root and you加veethe key that will血lockethe mean-ings of up to ten or twen句WOT心切whichethe root appears. Learn ego and you can immediately get a handle on egocentric,egomaniac, egoist, egotist, and alter ego. Learn anthropos (Greek, mankind), and you will. quickly un-derstand, and never forget, anthropolo盯，misanthropy,eanthropoid, 




anthropocentric, anthropomorphic, philanthropy, and anthropo-phobia. Meet any word with anthropo-in it, and you will have at least some idea of its meaning. 

In the etymological (e心m:i-LOJ'于bl)oapproach to vocabu-lary building: 

.oYou willleam about pr.肛es,oroots, and suffixes一 
.oYou will be able to figure ont unfamiliar words by recognizingotheir structure, the building blocks. from which they are con-structed一o
.oYou will 
be able to construct words correctly by learning tooput these building blocks together in the proper way-ando
.oYou will be able to derive verbs from nouns, nouns andoverbs from adjectives, adjectives from nouns, etc.-and do allothis correctly.o



Learn how to deal with etymology and you will feel comfortable with words一youowill use new words with self-assurance--you will be able to figure out tho四andsoof words you hear or read even if you加veonever heard or seen these words before. 
That's why the best approach to new words is through etymol-ogy牛－asoyou will discover for yourself as soon as you start to work on chapter 31 

5. but what are nouns, verbs, and adjectives? 
You probably know.o
But if you don't, you can master these parts of speech.(and ref-erence will be made to noun forms, verb forms, and adjective forms throughout the book) within the next five minutes. 
(a)oA noun is a word that can be preceded by a, an, the, some,o
such, or my. An egoist (noun) 

i Incidentally, Latin scholars will notice that I present a Latin verb in the first person singular, present tense (verto, I tum), but call it an infinitive (verto, to turn). I do this for two reasons: 1) verto is easier for a non-Latin scholar to pronounce (the actual infinitive, vertere, is pronouncedWAIR屯ray);oand 2) when I studied Latin fifty years ago, the convention was to refer to, a verb by using the first person singular, present tense. 
If you are not a Latin scholar, you need not bother to read this foot-note-if you've already done so, forget it! 



Such asceticism (noun) 
The misogynist (noun) 
(Nouns, you will discover, often end in conventional suffixes: -ne灯，－ity,e-ism, -y, -ion, etc.)e
(b)eA verb is a word that fits into the pattern,''Let use
" A verb has a past tense. Let us equivocate (verb)―past tense: equivocated. Let us alternate (verb)-past tense: alternated. Let us philander (verb)一pastetense: philandered. (Verbs, you will discover, often end in conventional suffixes: 
-ate, -ize, -fy, etc.)e
(c)eAn adjective is a word that fits into the pattern, "You are
“ 
very 
You are very egoistic (adjective). 
You are very introverted (adjective). 
You are very miso盯nouse・c adjective). 
(Adjectives, you will discover, often end in conventional suffixes:'-ic,-ed,-ous, -al,-ive, etc.) 
And adverbs, of course, are萨nerallyeformed by adding -ly to an adjective: misogynous-miso幻'nous忱eeducational-education-ally; etc. 
・That's all there is to it! (Did it take more than five minutes?eMaybe ten at the most?) 
6.ehow to wo『kefor best resultse

If you intend to work with this book seriously (that is, if youreclear intention is to add a thousand or more new words to your present vocabulary-add them permanently, unforgettably-add them so successfully that you will soon find yourself using them in speech and writing), I suggest that you give yourself every advan-tage by carefully following the laws of learning: 
(a)eSpace your learning.e
Beginning with Chapter 3, every chapter will be divided intoe"sessions." Each session may take one half hour to an hour and a half, depending on the amount of material and on your own speed of learning. 



Do one or two sessions at a time-three if you're going strong 
and are all involved―and always decide when you stop exactly when you will return. (I remind you to do this later in the book, since such a procedure is of crucial importance.) 
(b)eDo not rush―go at your own comfortable speed.e
Everyone learns at a different pace. Fast learners are no betterethan slow learners-it's the end result that counts, not the time it takes you to finish. 
(c) Review.e
When you start a new session, go back to the last exercise of the previous session (usually Can you recall the words? or Chapter Review), cover your answers, and test your retention一doeyou 
have quick recall after a day or so has elapsed? 
(d) Test yourself.eYou are not aiming for a grade, or putting your worth on thee
13, and 17)―rather you are discovering your weaknesses, if any; 
line, when you take the three Comprehens.ve Tests (Chapters 8, deciding where repairs have to be made; and, especially, ex-periencing a feeling of success at work well done. (In learning, too, nothing succeeds like success!) Use these three tests, as well as the abundant drill exercises, as aids to learning. No one is perfect, no one learns in the exact same way or at the same rl)te as anyone else. Find the optimum tech-nique and speed for your unique learning patterns-and then give yourself every opportunity to exploit your actual, latent, and po-tential abilities. 

But most important (as I will remind you several times throughout the book)-develop a routine and stick to it! 




...
XXIII 



Disc)aimer: 
Occasionally in these pages, owing to the deficiency of the Eng-'Iish language, I have used he/him/his meaning he .r she/him or her/his or her in order to avoid awkwardness of style. He, him, and his are not intended as exclusively masc.line pronouns--they may refer to either sex or .o both sexes. 









WordPowe『

MadeEasy 




＼． 



PART ONE 



GETIING OFF TO A GOOD START 






1 

HOW TO TEST YOUR PRESENT VOCABULARY 



Once-asa child―you were an expert, an accomplished virtuoso, at learning new words. Today, by comparison, you are a rank and bumbling amateur. 

Does this statement sound insulting? It may be--but if you are the average adult, it is a statement that is, unfortunately, only too true. 
Educational testing indicates that children of ten who have grown up in families in which English is the native language have recognition vocabularies of over twenty thousand words
― 
And that these same ten-year-olds have been learning new words at a rate of many hundreds a year since the age of four. 
In astonishing contrast, studies show that adults who are no longer attending-school increase their vocabularies at a pace slower than twenty-five to fifty words annually. 

How do you assess your own vocabulary? 
Is it quantitatively healthy? 
Rich in over-all range? 

Responsive to any situation in which you may find yoursel疗s
Truly indicative of your intellectual potential? 
More important, is it still growing at the same rapid clip as when you were a child? 
Or, as with most adults, has your rate of increase dropped dras-



tica11y since you left school? And if so, do you now feel that your vocabulary is somewhat limited, your verbal skills not as sharp as you would like them to be? 
Let us check it out. I challenge you to a series of tests that will measure your vocab-ulary range, as well as your verbal speed and responsiveness. 
A TEST OF VOCABULARY RANGE 

Here are sixty brief phrases, each containing one italicized word; it is up to you to check the closest definition of each such word. To keep your score valid, refrain, as far as possible, from wild guessing. The key will be found at the end of the test. 
1. disheveled appearance: (a) untidy; 
a baffling problem: (a) difficult, (b) simple, (c)
2. 
puzzling,e
(d)elong, (e) newe

3.elenient parent: (a) tall, (b) not strict, (c) wise, (d) foolish,e
(e) severee

4.erepulsive personality: (a) disgusting, (b) attractive, (c) nor-mal, (d) confused, (e) conceitede
5. audacious attempt: (a) useless, (b) bold, (c) foolish, 
(d)e

6. parry a blow: (a) ward off, (b) fear, (c) expect, (d) invite,e


(e)eignoree
7. prevalent disease: (a) dangerous, (b) catching, (c) child-hood, (d) fatal, (e) widespreade
8.eominous report: (a) loud, (b) threatening, (c) untrue, (d)eserious, (e) unpleasante
9. an -incredible story: (a) true, (b) interesting, (c) well-known, (d) unbelievable, (e) unknowne
10.ean ophthalmologist: (a) eye doctor, (b) skin doctor, (c) footedoctor, (d) heart doctor, (e) cancer specialiste
11.ewill亚persedeethe old law: (a) enforce; (b) specify penaltiesefor, (c) take the place of, (d) repeal, (e) continuee
12. an anonymous donor: (a) generous, (b) stingy, (c) well-known, (d) one whose name is not known, (e) reluctante
13. 
performed an autopsy: (a) examination of l.ving tissue, (b)eexamination of a corpse to determine the cause of death, (c) process in the manufacture of optical lenses, (d) operation toecure an organic disease, (e) series of questions to determineethe causes of delinquent behaviore

14.e
an indefatigable worker: (a) well-paid, (b) tired, (c) skill-ful, (d) tireless, (e) pleasante

15. 
a confirmed atheist: (a) bachelor, (b) disbeliever in God,e








(c)ebeliever in religion, (d) believer in science, (e) prieste
16.e
endless loquacity: (a) misery, (b} fantasy, (c) repeti-tiousness, (d} ill health, (e) talkativeness 

17. 
a glib talker: (a) smooth, (b) awkward, (c). loud, (d) 



friendly, (e} boring 

beyond correction ore
hopeful, (e) unreasonable 
19. 
an ocular problem: (a) unexpected, (b) insoluble, (c) vis-ual, (d) coritinual, (e) imaginary 

20.e
a notorious demagogue: (a) rabble-rouser, (b) gambler, (c)eperpetrator of financial frauds, (d) liar, (e) spendthrift 

21. 
a naive attitude: (a) unwise, (b) hostile, (c) unsophis-ticated, (d) friendly, (e) contemptuous 

22.e
living in affluence: (a) difficult circumstances, (b) countrifiedesurroundings, (c) fear, (de)wealth, (e) poverty 

23. 
in retrospect: (a} view of the past, (b) artistic balance, (c}anticipation, (d) admiration, (e) second thoughtse

24. 
a gourmet: (a) seasoned traveler, (b) greedy eater, (c) vege-tarian, (d) connoisseur of good food, (e) skillful chefe

25.e
to simulate interest: (a) pi:etend, (b) feel, (c) Jose, (d) stir 





26.e
magnanimous action: (a) puzzling, (b) generous, (c)
a 
foolish, (d) unnecessary, (e) wisee
27.e
a eland.estine meeting: (a) prearranged, (b) hurried, (c) im-portant, (.d) secret, (e) publice

28.e
the apathetic citizens:. (a) made up of separate ethnic groups, 


(b)ekeenly vigilant of their rights, (c) politically conservative,e
.. (d) indifferent, uninterested, uninvolved, -(e) terrified 


29. to placate his son: (a) please, (b) help, (c) find a job for,e
(d) make arrangements for, (e) change a feeling of hostilityeto one of friendliness 



30.eto vacillate .ontinuaTiy: (a) avoid, (b) swing back and forthein indecision, (c) inject, (d) treat, (e) scolde
31. a nostalgic feeling: {a) nauseated, (b) homesick, (c) sharp,e

(d)epainful. (e) delighted 

32.efeel antipathy: (a) bashfulness, (b) stage fright, (c) friend-
liness, (d) suspensee
33.ebe more circumspect: (a) restrained, (b) confident, (c) cau-tious, (d) honest, (e) intelligente
34.ean intrepid fighter for human rights: (a) fearless, (b) elo-quent, (c) J?Opular, (d) experienced, (e) famous 
35.ediaphanoi,r material: (a) strong, (b) sheer and gauzy, (c)ecolorful, (d) expensive, (e) synthetice
36.ea taciturn host: (a) stingy, (b) generous, (c) disinclined toe


gloomy 
37.e
to malign his friend: (a) accuse, 
(d)eslander, (e) introduce 
(b) help, (c) disbelieve,e
38.ea co咽enitaledeformity: (a) hereditary, (b) crippling; (c)eslight, (d) incurable, (e) occurring at or during birthe
39.ea definite neurosis: (a) plan, (b) emotional disturbance, (c)ephysical disease, (d) feeling ofefear, (e) allergic reactione
40.emade an unequivocal statement: (a) hard to understand, (b)elengthy, (c) politically motivated, (d) clear and forthright,e



(e)esupportinge
41.evicarious enjoyment: (a) complete, (b) unspoiled, (c) oc-curring from a feeling of identification with another, (d)elong-continuing, (e) temporary 
42.epsychogenic ailment: (a) incurable, (b) contagious, (c) originating in the mind, (d) intestinal, (e) imagina可e
43.ean anachronous attitude: (a) unexplainable, (b) unrea-sonable, {c) belonging to a different time, (d) out of place,e


(e)eunusuale

44.eher iconoclastic phase: (a)-artistic, (b) sneering at tradition,e
(c)etroubled, (d) difficult, (e) religiouse

45.ea tyro: (a) dominating personality, (b) beginner, (c) accom-plished musician, (d) dabbler, (e) serious studente
46. a laconic reply: (a) immediate, (b) assured, (c) terse ande


meaningful, (d) unintelligible, (e) angry 
47. semantic confusion: (a) relating to the meaning of words,e


(b) pertaining to money, (c) having to do with the emotions, 
(d) relating to mathematics, (e) caused by inner turmoile

48. cavalier treatment: (a) courteous, (b) haughty and high-handed,(c) negligent, (cl) affectionate, (e) expensive 
49.ean anomalous situation: (a) dangerous, (b) intriguing, (c)e
unusual, (d) 

50.
post加mousechild: (a) cranky, (b) brilliant, (c) physically weak, (d) illegitimate, (e) born after the death of the father 

51.efeels enervated: (a) full of ambition, (b) full of strength, (c)ecompletely exhausted, (d) troubled, (e) full of renewedeenergye
52. shows perspicaci忱(a)esincerity, (b) mental keenness, (c)elove, (d) faithfulness, (e) longing 
53. an unpopular martinet: (a) candidate, (b) supervisor, (c) strict d!sciplinarian, (d) military leader, (e) discourteousesnobe
54. gregarious person: (a) outwardly calm,.(b) very sociable, 



(c)ecompletely untrustworthy, (d) vicious, (e) self-effacingeand timide
55. generally phlegmatic: (a) smug, self-satisfied, (b) easilyepleased, (c) nervous, high-strung, (d) emotionally unrespon-sive, (e) lacking in social graces 
56. an inveterate gamblet: (a) impoverished, (b) successful, (c)ehabitual, (d) occasional, (e) superstitious 
57. an egregious error: (a) outstandingly bad, (b) slight, (c) ir-reparable, (d) unnecessary, (e) deliberate 
58. cacophony of a large city: (a) political administration, (b)ecrowded living conditions, (c) cultural advantages, (d) un-pleasant noises, harsh sounds, (e) busy traffice
59.ea prwient adolescent: (a) tall and gangling, (b) sexuallyelonging, (c) clumsy, awkward, (d) sexually attractive, (e)esoft-spokene
60.euxorious husband: (a) henpecked, (b) suspicious, (c) guiltyeof infidelity, (d) fondly and foolishly doting on his wife, (e)etightfisted, penny-pinchinge



KEY: 1戈，2-c,e3-b, 4-a, 5-b, 6-a, 7--e; 8-b, 9-d,10-a, 11-c, 12-d, 13-b, 14-d, 15-b, 16-e, 17-:-a, 18-b, 19-c,20-a, 



7 


21一c,22-cl，23-a, 24-cl, 25-a,26-b, 27-c1,28-cl，o29-e, 30-b, 31-b,32-c1,33-c,34-a, 35-b, 36-c,37-cl，38-e,o39-b, 40-cl, 41-c,42-c, 43-c,44--b, 45-b, 46-c, 47-a,o48-b, 49-c,50-e, 51-c,52-b, 53-c,54-b, 55-cl，o56o-c, 57-a，58-cl，59-b,60-clo

average 36-48:oabove average 49一54:oexcellent 55-60: superior 


A TEST OF VERBAL SPEED 

PART 1 
This is a timed test. 

In no more than three minutes (time yourself, or have someone time you), decide whether the word in column B is the same (or approximately the same) in meaning as the word in column A; opposite (or approximately opposite) in meaning; or whether the two words are merely dlff erent. 

Circle S for same, 0 for opposite, and D for different. You _will not have time to dawdle or think too long, so go as fast as you can. 

COLUMN A COLUMN B 


sour anginsane hinderperilry 

ssssss
1.osweeto
2.ocrazyo
3. stoutofat 
4. bigo
5.odangero
6.ohelpo

00
D 
D 



DDDD 



DD
magnificent


000000000000

D DD 
DDDDD
sssss
female weak under die get replace 

DDD 
DDD
s

000000000000
sssss
weep close home table desire container working luxurious 
DDDDD

sssss 
DDD
28. idle 
29. rich 


s
30. building structure 

This is also a timed test. In no more than three minutes (again, time yourself or have someone time you), write down as many different words as you can think of that start with the letter D. 
Do not use various forms of a word, done, doer, etc. 


Space is provided for 125 words. You are not expected to reach that number, but write as fast. as you can and see how many blanks you can fill in before your time is up. 
1. 




34. 35. 36. 
38. 39. 40. 
42. 
47. 
49. 
・51. 
54. 
59. 60. 
64. 65. 66. 67. 68. 69. 70. 71. 72. 73. 74. 75. 76. 77. 78. 79. 80. 81. 82. 83. 84. 85. 86. 87. 88. 89. 90.. 91. 92. 93. 94. 
95. 96. 97. 98. 99. 100. 101. 102. 103. 104. 105. 106. 107. 108. 109. 110. 111. 112. 113. 114. 115. 116. 117. 118. 119. 120. 121. 122. 123. 124. 125. 

KEY: Part 1: 1-O, 2-S, 3-S,4-D, 5-S,64)， 7-S, 8-0， 9-S, 10-S, 11-D, 12-0, 13-0，14-S, 15-0，1心，1干0,18-D, 19-0,20-D, 21-S,22-D, 23-0，24-S, 25-D, 26-S, 27-S,28-0，29-S,30-SsPart 2: Any English word starting with D is correct un-less it is merely another form of a previous word on the list. 

Scoring: 

PART 1 
H you have up to 10 correct answers, credit your score with 25 points. 丑youshave 11-20 correct answers, credit your score with 50 
points. 

21一25scorrect answers-75 po.ts. 
26-30 correct answers-100 points. 
Your Score on Part 1: 

PART 2 
Up to 30 words: -25 points 31--50 words: 50 points 51一70'words:s75 points 
71一125swords: 100 points 
Your Score on Part 2: 

TOTAL SCORE 
On Verbal Speed:. 
The meaning of your verbtil speed score: 


SO: below average 75: average 

100: above average 125-150: excellents175-200: superiors









A TEST OF VERBAL RESPONSIVENESS 
PART 1 
Write in the blank in column B a word starting with the letter P that is the same, or approximately the same, in meaning word given in column A. 
Example: look peer Warning: Every answer must start wiith the letter P. 
A 
1. bucket 
15. stone 
2. 
trousers 16. inactive 

3. 
maybe 17. fussy 

4. 
forgive 18. suffering 

5. 
separate 19. castle 

6. 
likely 

7. 
annoy 21. fear 

8. 
good-looking 22. twosome 

9. 
picture 23. artist 

10. 
choose 24. sheet 

11. 
ugly 25. collection 




13. 
dish 

14. 
location 


PART 2 

Write in the blank in column B a word starting with the letter G that is opposite, approximately opposite, or in contrast to the word giv!;ln in column A. 
Example: stop go 
Warning: Every answer must start with the letter G. 
B
A 
1. lose 
5. take 
2. 
midget 6. moron 

3. 
special 7. sad 

4. 
lady 8. boy 









9.ahappy 18.arougha
10.aplaina19.abridea
11.ahelloa20.aripe
12.aherea21.aunwantinga
13.abada22.aunprotecteda
14.auglya23. experienceda
15.astingya24.ascarcitya
16.aawkwarda25. unappreciativea
17.alittlea

KEY, Part 1: If more than one answer is given, count as cor-rect any word you have written that is the same 
as any one of the answers. 

1-pail, pan, 2-pants, 3-perhaps, possibly, proba-bly, 4-pardon, 5-part, 6-probable, possible, per-haps, 7-pester, 8-pretty, 9-photograph, painting,a10-pick, 11-plain, 12-proceed, 13-plate, platter,14-place, 15-pebble, 16-passive, 17-particular,apicky, 18寸》ain,a19-palace, 20-pant, puff,21-panic, 22-pair, 23-painter, 24-page, 25-packa


Part 2: If more than one answer is given, count as correct any word you have written that is the same as any one of the answers. 

1-gain,get, 
garner, grab, glean, grasp, grip, 2-gi-ant,gigantic, great, gross, 3-general，牛gentleman,a5-give, 6老enius,7-glad, gleeful, gleesome, 8-girl,a9-gloomy, glum, grieving, grumpy, 10-gaudy,grand, grandiose, 11-goodbye, 12-gone, 13-good,14-good-looking, IS-generous, giving, 16-grace-血，17-great,agiant, gigantic, 18-gentle, 19..c.groom,a
20-green, 21-greedy, grasping, 22-guarded,a

Scoring: 


Score Parts 1 and 2 together. Write in the blank the total num-her of correct responses yo. made: 
The meaning of your verbal responsiveness score: 0-10: below average 11-20: average 21-30: above average 31-40: excellent 41-50: supenor 



VOCABULARY AND SUCCESS 
Now you know where you stand. If you are in the below aver-age or average group, you must consider, seriously, whether an in-adequate vocabulary may be holding you back.(If you tested out on the above average, excellent, or superior level, you have doubt-less already discovered the unique and far-reaching value of a rich vocabulary, and you are .ager to add still further to your knowl-edge of words.) 
Let us examine, briefly, some of the evidence that points to the close relationship between vocabulary and personal, professional, and intellectual growth. 
The Human Engineering Laboratory found that the only com-mon characteristic of successful people in this country is an unu-sual grasp of the meanings of words. The Laboratory tested the vocabularies of thousands of people in all age groups. and in all walks of life-and discovered that those people drawing down the highest salaries made the highest scores. Consider very thought-fully the explanation that the director of the Laboratory offered for the relationship between vocabulary and success: 
"Why do large vocabularies characterize executives and possi-bly outstanding inen and women in other fields? The final answer seems to be that words are the instruments 
by means of which men and women grasp・ the thoughts of others and with which they do much of their own thinking. They are the tools of thought." 
There is other evidence. 
At many universities, groups of freshmen were put into experi-mental classes for the sole purpose of increasing their knowledge of English words. These groups did better in their sophomore, junior, and senior years than control groups of similarly endowed students who did not receive such training. 







17 


And still more evidence: 
At the University of Illinois, entering students were given a sim-pie twenty-nine-word vocabulary test.九eeresults of this test could be used, according to Professor William D. Templeman, to make an accurate prediction of future academic success--or lack of success-over the entire four year college course. "If a student has a superior vocabulary," states Professor Templeman, "it will probably follow that he will do better work academically." 

And finally: Educational research has discovered that your I.Q. is intimately 
related to your vocabulary. Take a standard vocabulary test and then an intelligence test―the results in both will be substantially 
the same. YOU CAN INCREASE YOUR VOCABULA.Y 

The more extensive your vocabulary, the better your chances for success, other things being equal―success in attaining your educational goals, success in moving ahead in your business or pro-fessional career, success in achieving your intellectual potential. And you can increase your vocabulary―faster and easier than you may realize. You can, in fact, accomplish a tremendous gain in less than two 

to three months of concentrated effort, even if you do only one session a day―in less time if you do two or more sessions a day. 
Furthermore--You can start improving your vocabulary immediately-and within a few days you can be cruising along at such a rapid rate that there will be an actual change in your thinking, in your ability to express your thoughts, and in your powers of understanding. Does this sound as if I am promising you the whole world in a neat package with a pretty pink ribbon tied around it? I am. And I am willing to make such an unqualified promise because I have seen what happens to those of my students at New York Univer-sity and at Rio Hondo College in W垃ttier,eCalifornia, who make sincere, methodical efforts to learn more, many ip.ore, words. 



2 

HOW TO START BUILDING YOUR VOCABULARY 

When you have finished working with this book, you will no 
longer be the same person. 

You can't be. 
If you honestly read every page, if you do every exercise, if you 
take every test, if you follow every principle, you will go through an intellectual experience that will effect a radical change in you. 
For if you systematically increase your vocabulary, you will also sharpen and enrich your thinking; push back your intellectual ho-rizons; build your self-assurance; improve your facility in handling the English language and thereby your ability to express your thoughts effectively; and acquire a deeper understanding of the world in general and of yourself in particular. 

Increasing your vocabulary does not mean merely learning the definitions of large numbers of obscure words; it does not mean memorizing.scores of unrelated terms. What it means--what it can only mean一is becoming acquainted with the multitudinous and fascinating phenomena of. human existence for which words are, obviously, only the verbal descriptions. 

Increasing your vocabulary一properly, intelligently, and sys-tematically一means treating yourself to an all-round, liberal edu-cation. 




And surely you cannot deny that such an experience will change you intellectually― 
Will have a discernible effect on your methods of thinking--on your store of information--0n your ability to express your ideas -on your understanding of human problems. 

HOW CHILDREN INCREASE THEIR VOCABULARIES 
The typical ten-year-old, you will recall, has a recognition vo-cabulary of over twenty thousand words一andehas been learning many hundreds of new words every year since the age of four. 
You were once that typical child. 
You were once an accomplished virtuoso at vocabulary build-ing. What was your secret? Did you spend hours every day poring over a dictionary? Did you lull yourself to sleep at night with Webster's Un-
abridged? Did you keep notebooks foll of all the new words you ever heard or read? Did you immediately look up the meaning of any new word that your parents or older members of your family used? Such procedures would have struck you as absurd then, as ab-surd as they would be for you today. You・had a much better, much more effective, and considerably less self-conscious method. 



Your method was the essence of simplicity: day in and day out you kept learning; you kept squeezing every possible ounce of learning out of every waking moment; you were an eternal qoes-tion box, for you had a constant and insatiable desire to know and understand. 




HOW ADULTS STOP BUILDING THEIR VOCABULARIES 

Then, eventually, at some point in your adult life (unless you are the rare exception), you gradually lost your compulsive drive to discover, to figure out, to understand, to know. 

Eventually, therefore, you gradually lost your need to increase your vocabulary一youreneed to learn the words that could verbal-ize your new discoveries, your new understanding, your new knowledge. 
Roland Gelatt, in a review of Caroline Pratt's book I Learn from Children, describes this phenomenon as follows: 
All normal human beings are born with a powerful urge to learn. Almost all of them lose this urge, even before they have reached 
maturity. It is only the few... who are so constituted that lack of learning becomes a nuisance. This is perhaps the most insidious o! human tragedies. 
Children are wonders at increasing their vocabularies because of their "powerful urge to learn." They do not learn solely by 
means of words, but as their knowledge increases, so does their voca.ulary―for words are the symbols of.ideas,andunder-
.standing. 
(If you are a parent, you perhaps remember that crucial ・ and trying period in which your child constantly asked "Why?" The "Why?" is the child's method of finding out. How many adults that you know go about asking and thinking "Why?" How・ often do you yourself do it?) 
The adults who "lose this urge," who no longer feel that "lack of learning becomes a nuisance,"stop building their vocabularies. They stop learning, they stop growing intellectual1y, they 
stop changing. When and if such a time comes, then, as Mr. Gelatt so truly says, "This is perhaps the most insidious of human trage-dies." But fortunately the process is far from irreversible. 




If you have lost the "powerful urge to learn," you can regainit―you can regain your need to discover, to figure out, to under-stand, to know. 
And thus you can start increasing your vocabulary at the same 
rate as when you were a child. 
I am not spouting airy theory. For over thirty-five years I have worked with thousands of adults in my college courses in vocabu-lary improvement, and、Iecans纽teeas a fact, and without qualifica-
tion, that: 
If you can recapture the "powerful urge to learn" with which you were born, you can go on increasing your vocabu加-yeat a pro-digious rate一 
No matter what your present age. 
WHY AGE MAKES LITTLE DIFFERENCE IN VOCABULARY BUILDING 
I repeat, no matter what your present age. You may be laboring under a delusion common to many older people. You may think that after you pass your twenties you rapidly and inevitably lose your ability to learn. 

That is simply not true. 
There is no doubt that the years up to eighteen or twenty are the best period for learning. Your own experience no doubt bears that out. And of course for most people more learning goes on faster up to the age of eighteen or twenty than ever after, even if they live to be oIder than Methuselah. （That is w?y vocabuIary increases so rapidly for the first twenty years of Iife1 and compara-tively at a snail's pace thereafter.) 
But (and follow me closely)一e
The fact that most learning is accomplished before the age of twenty does not mean that very little)earning can be achieved be-yond that age. 
W血teis done by most people and what can be done under proper guidance and motivation are two very, very different things -asescientific experiments have conclusively shown. 


Furthermore--

The fact that your learning ability may be best up to age twenty does not mean that it is absolutely useless as soon as your twenti-eth birthday is passed. 
Quite the contrary. Edward Thorndike, the famous educational psychologist, found in experiments with people of all ages that although the learning 
. curve rises spectacularly up to twenty, it remains steady for at least another five years. After that, ability to learn (according to Professor Thorndike) drops very, very slowly up to the age of thirty-five, and drops a bit more but still slowly beyond that age. 
And一 Right up to senility the total decrease in learning ability after age twenty is never more than 15 per cent! That does not sound, I submit, as if no one can ever learn any-thing new after the age of twenty. Believe me, the old saw that claims you cannot teach an old dog new tricks is a baseless, if popular, superstition. 


So I repeat: no matter what your age, you can go on learning efficiently, or start learning once again if perhaps you have stopped. 
You can be thirty, or forty, or fifty, or sixty, or seventy--or older. 

No matter what your age, you can once again increase your vo-cabulary at a prodigious rate一providingeyou recapture the''pow-erftil urge to learn" that is the key to vocabulary improvement. 
Not the urge to learn "words”―words are only symbols of ideas. But the urge to learn facts, theories, concepts, information, knowledge, understanding--call it what you will. 
Words are the symbols of knowledge, the keys to accurate thinking. Is it any wonder then that the most successful and intel-ligent people in this country have the biggest vocabularies? 
It was not their large vocabularies that made these people suc-
cessful and inte11igent, but their knowledge. Knowledge, however, is gained largely through words. In the process of increasing their knowledge, these successful 


people increased their vocabularies. Just as children increase their vocabulary at a tremendous, phe-










nomenal rate during those years when their knowledge is increas-ing most rapidly. 
Knowledge is chiefly in the form of words, and from now on, in this book, you will be thinking about, and thinking with, new words and new ideas. 

WHAT THIS BOOK CAN DO FOR YOU , 
This book is designed to get you started building your vocabu-lary--effectively and at jet-propelled speed一byehelping you re-gain the intellectual atmosphere, the keen, insatiable curiosity, the "powerful urge to learn" of your childhood. 
The organization of the book is based on two simple principles: 
1) words are the verbal symbols of ideas, and 2) the more ideaseyou are familiar with, the more words you know.e
So, chapter by chapter, we will start witl1 some central idea― personality types, doctors, science, unusual occupations, liars, ac-tions, speech habits, insults, compliments, etc.-and examine ten basic words that express various aspects of the idea. Then, using each word as a springboard, we will explore any others which are related to it in meaning or derivation, so that it is not unlikely that a single chapter may discuss, teach, and test close to one hundred important words. 

Always, however, the approach will be from the idea. First there will be a "teaser preview'.'in which the ideas are briefiy hinted at; then a "headline," in which each idea is examined somewhat more closely; next a clear, detailed paragraph or more will analyze the idea in all its ramifications;finally the word itself, which you will meet only after you are completely familiar with the idea. 
In the etymology (derivation of words) section, you will learn what Greek or Latin root gives the word its unique meaning and what other words contain the same, or related, roots. You will thus be continually working in related fields, and there will never be any possi'bility of confusion from "too muchness," despite the great number of words taken up and tested in each chapter. 
Successful people have superior vocabularies. People who are 


intellectually alive and successful in the professional or business worlds are accustomed to dealing with ideas, are constantly on the search for new ideas, build their lives and their careers on the ideas they have learned. And it is to readers whose goal is success-ful living (in the broadest meaning of the word successful) that this book is addressed. 

A NOTE ON Tl从E SCHEDULES 
From my experience over 
many years in teaching, I have be-come a firm believer in setting a goal for all learning and a sched-ule for reaching that goal. 
You will discover that each chapter is. divided into approxi-mately equal sessions, and that each session will take from thirty to forty-five minutes of your time, depending on how rapidly or slowly you enjoy working一andebear in mind that every.ne has an optimum rate of learning. 
For best results, do one or two sessions at a time―spaced study-ing, with time between sessions so that you can assimilate what you have learned, is far more efficient, far more productive, than gobblingup great amounts in indigestiblechunks. 
Come back to the book every day, or as close to every day as the circumstances of your life permit. 
Find a schedule that is comfortable for you, and then stick to it. 
Avoid interrupting your work until you have completed a full session, and always decide, before you stop, exactly when you will plan to pick up the book again. 

Working at your own comfortable rate, you will likely finish the material in two to three months, give or take a few weeks either way. 
However long you take, you will end with a solid feeling of ac-complishment, a new understanding of how English words work, and―most important-how to make wor心workefor you. 





3 

HQW TO TALK ABOUT PERSONALITY TYPES 

(Sessions 1-3) 


TEASER P.旺VIEW 
What word best describes your personality if you: 
.are interested solely in your own welfare? 
. constantly talk about yourself? 
. dedicate your life to helping others? 
.turn your mind inward? 




. turn your mind outwari心
.hate human切？ 
.hate women? 
. hate marriage? 
. lead a lonely, au.rtereexistence? 







26 

SESSION 1 

Every human being is, in one way or another, unique. 
Everyone's personality is determined by a combination of ge-netic and environmental factors. 
Let us examine ten personality types (one of which might by chance be your very own) that result from the way culture, growth, family background, and environment interact with hered-ity. 

And, of course, we begin not with the words; but with the ideas. 

IDEAS 
1. me first 

Your attitude to life is simple, direct, and aboveboard一everyedecision you-make is based on the answer to one question: "What's in it for me?" If your selfishness, greed, and ruthless desire for self-advancement hurt other people, that's too bad. "This is a tough world, pal,dog eat dog and all that; and I, for one, am not going to be left behind!" 
An egoist 

2. the height of conceit 
"Now, let's see. Have you heard about all the money I'm mak-ing? Did I tell you about my latest amorous conquest?Let me give you my opinion一IeI.cnow, because I'm an expert at practically ev-erything!" You are boastful to the point of being obnoxious--you 



self; and on it you play a number of monotonous variations: what you think, what you have done, how good you are, how you would solve the problems of the world, etc.ead nauseam. 
_ An egotist 

3.elet me help youe
You have discovered the secret of true bappiness--concerningeyourself with the welfare of others. Never mind your・ own inter-ests, how'_s the next fellow getting along? 
An altruist 

-4. leave me alone 
Like a biochemist studying a colony of bacteria under th. mi-croscope, you minutely examine your every thought, feeling, and action. Probing, futilequestions like "What do other people-think of me?", "How do I look?", and "Maybe I shouldn't have said that?" are your constant naggingcompanions, for you are unable to realize that other people do not spend as much time and energy analyzing you as you think. 
You may seem unsocial, yet your greatest desire is to be l_iked and accepted. You may be shy and quiet, you are often moody and unhappy, and you prefer solitude or at most the eompany of one person to a cl'Qwd. You have an aptitude for creative work and are uncomfortable engaging in activities that require co-operation with other people. You may even be a genius, or eve._tu-ally tum into 
one. 

An introvert 
5. let's do it togethere

You would be great as a teacher, counselor,administrator, in-surance agent; You can always become interested--sincerely, vi一 tally interested-in other people's problems. You're the life of the party, because you never wo可aboutethe effect of your actions, never inhibityourself with doubts about dignity or propriety. You 






generally full of high spirits; you love to be with people-lots of people. Your thoughts, your interests, your whole personality are turned outward. 
An extrovert 

6. neither extremee
You have both introverted and extroverted tendencies一ate
different tunes and on different occasions. Your interests are turned, in about equal proportions, both inward and outward. Jn.,. deed, you're quite normal一inethe sense that your personality is 
like that of most people. 
An ambivert 

7.epeople are no damn goode
Cynical,embittered,suspicious, you hate everyone. (Especially,ebut never to be admitted, yourself?) The perfectibility of the human race? "Nonsense! No way!" The stupidity, the meanness, and the crookedness of most mortals ("Most? Probably all!")一ethat is your favorite theme. 
A misanthrope 

8. wamen are no damn goode
Sometime in your dim past, you were crossed, scorned, or deeplyewounded by a woman (a mother, or mother figure, perhaps?). So now you have a carefully constructed defense agaim;t further hurt 一youehate all women. 
Amiso窃niste

9.e"marriage is an institution-and v:,ho wants to live in an institu-tion?"e

You will not make the ultimate legal commitment Members of the opposite sex are great as lovers, roommates, apartment-or house-sharers, but not as lawfully wedded spouses. The ties that 




bind are too binding for you. You may possibly believe, and pos-sibly, for yourself, be right, that a commitment is deeper and 
more meaningful if freedom is available without judicial proceedings. 
A misogamist 
10. "... that the flesh i. heir to... "o
Self-denial, austerity,lonely contemplation―these are the char-acteristics of the good life, so you claim. The simplest food and the least amount of it that will keep body and soul together, com-bined with abstinencefrom fleshly, earthly pleasures, will eventu-ally lead to spiritual perfection―that is your philosophy. 

An ascetic 

USING THE WORDS 
You have been -introduced to ten valuable words一butoin each case, as you have noticed, you have first considered the ideas that these words represent. Now say the words-each one is respelled phonetically so that you will be sure to pronounce it correctly.* 
Say each word aloud. This is the first important step to com-plete mastery.As you hear a word in your own voice, think of its meaning. Are you quite clear about it? If not, reinforce your leami,ng by rereading the explanatory paragraph or paragraphs. 
Can you pronounce the words? 



1. egoist 
EE'-go-ist 
2. egotistoEE'-go-tist 
3. altruistAL'-ti,仅isto
4.ointrovertIN'-t庄vurt'o
5. ・extrovertoEKS'-trn-vurt' 
6.oambivert AM'-b.vurt' 


* See Introduction, Section 2, Master the pronunc如iono:rystem.



1. misanthropeMIS'心n-throp' 
8. misogynist m今SOJ'勺－nist 

9. misogamist m:i-SOG'-:i-mist 10. ascetic 3-SET'-ik 

Can you work with the words? 
You have taken two long steps toward mastery of the expressive words in this chapter_you have thought about the ideas behind them,and you have said them aloud. 

For you-r third step, match each personality with the appro-priate characteristic,action, or attitude. 

1. egoist 

・ 
2. egotist ・ 
3. altruist 
4. introvert 
5. extrovert 
6.. ambivert 
7. misanthrope 
8. misogynist 

a. turns thoughts inward 
b. hates marriage 
c. talks about accomplishments 
d. hates people 
e. does not pursue pleasures of the flesh 
f. is interested in the welfare of others 
g. believes in self-advancement 
h. turns thoughts both inward and outward 

g c f a jh d i b e



Do you understand the words? 
Now that you are becoming more and more 
involved in these ten words, find out if they can make an immediate, appeal to your understanding. Here are ten questions--can you indicate, quickly, 

31 



and without reference to any previous definitions, whether the 

y n n y (y) (n) n n n y

correct answer to each of these questions is yes 
or no? 

1.eIs an egoist seJfish?eYES、NOe
2.eIs modesty one of the characteristics ofeYES NO 

the egotist?e3.. Is an altrui.vt selfish? YES NO 
4.. DDoes an introvert pay much attention to YES NO himself? 

5.. D
Does an extrovert prefer solitude to YES NO companionship? 
6.. AAre most normal people ambiverts?邓SeNO 
7.. DDoes a misanthrope like people? YES NO ・
8.. DDoes a misogynist enjoy the company YES NO of women? 
9.. DDoes an ascetic lead a life of luxury? YESeNO 


10. Does a misogamist try to avoideYES NO marriage?e
KEY: 1-yes, 2-no, 3-no, 4-yes, 5-no,_6-yes, 7-no, 8-no, 9-no, 10-yese
Can you recall the words? 
You have thus far reinforced your learning by saying the words aloud, by matching them to their definitions, and by responding to meaning when they were used in context. 
Can you recall each word, now, without further reference to previous material? And can you spell it correctly? 
1. Who lives a lonely, austereelife?e
2.eWhose interests are turnede2. outward?e
3.eWho is supremely selfish?e
3. 
4. Who hates people? 4.e
5. Who.se interests are turnede5.eboth inward and outward?e
6. Who is incredibly conceited? 6. 
7. Who is more interested in the 7. welfare of others than in his own? 
8. Who hates women? 8. M 



9.・Whose interests are turned 9. inward? 
10. Whohates marriage? ・ 10. M 
asceticoutvert (extrovert)egoist misanthrone (misanthrope)altivert (ambivert)
KEY: 1-ascetic, 2-extrovert, 3-egoist, 4-misanthrope, 5-ambi-vert, 6-egotist, 7-altruist, 8-misogynist, 9-introvert, 10-misogamist 

egotistalt? (altruist)misogyinist (misogynist)invert (introvert)misogonant (misogamist)
(End of Session I) 


SESSION 2 

ORIGINS AND RELATED WORDS 

Every word in the English language has a history一and these ten are no exception. In this section you will learn a good deal more about the.words you have been working with; in addition, you will make excursions into many other words allied eith.r in meaning, form, or history to our basic ten. 
1. the ego 

Egoist and egotist are built on the same Latin root-the pro-noun ego, meaning I. I is the greatest concern in the egoist's mind, the most overused word in the egotist's vocabulary. (Keep the 


words differe!}tiated in your own mind by thinking of the t in talk, and the additional t in egotist.) Ego itself has been taken over from Latin as an important English word and is commonly used to denote one's concept of oneself, as in, "What do you think 
your constant criticisms do to my ego?" Ego has also a special meaning in psychology―but for the moment you have ・enough problems without going into that. If you are an egocentl'ic (ee'-go-SEN'-trik), you consider your-self the center of the universe―you are an extreme form of the egoist. And if you are an egomaniac (ee'-go-MAY'-nee-ak), you carry egoism to such an extreme that your needs, desires, and in-terests have become a morbid obsession, a mania. The egoist or egotist is obnoxious, the egocentric is intolerable, and the egoma-血cois dangerous and slightly mad. Egocentric is both a noun ("What an egocentric her new room-mate is!") and an adjective ("He is the most egocentric person I have ever met!"). To derive the adjective form of egomaniac, add -al, a common adjective suffix. Say the adjective aloud: 


egomaniacal ee'-go-ma-NI'－a-kal 

2.oothers 
In Latin, the word for other is alter, and a number of valuable English words are built on this root. 
Altruism (AL'-tr<R>-iz勺m),othe philosophy.practiced by altru-ists, comes from one of the variant spellings of Latin alter, other. Altruistic (al-tr<X>-IS'-tik) actions look toward the benefit of others. If you alternate (AWL'七r-nayt'),oyou skip one and take the other, so to speak, as when you play golf on alternate (AWL'-阮n:it)oSaturdays. 
An alternate (AWL'七r-n:it)oin a debate, contest, or conven-
tioll is the other person who will take over if the original choice is 
unable to attend. And if you have no alternative (awl-TUR'-na-
tiv), you have no other choice. 
You see how easy it is to understand the meanings of these 
words once you realize that they all come from the same source. 


And keeping in mind that alter means other, you can quickly un-derstand words like alter ego, altercation, and alteration. 
Ari alteration (awl仁氐RAY'.sban)eis of course a change-.....a making into something other. When you alter (A WI.;'.tar) your plans, you make other plans. 
An altercation (awl'.tar-KAY'-shan) is a verbal dispute. When rou have an altercation with someone, you have a violent disagree-ment, a''fight" with words. And why? Because you have other ideas, plans, or opinions than those of the person on the other side of the argument. Altercation, by the way, is stronger than quarrel or dispute-the sentiment is more heated, the disagreement. is lilcely to be angry or even hot-tempered, there may be recourse, if the disputants are human, to profanity or obscenity. You have altercations, in short, over pretty important issues, and the word implies that you get q让teeexcited. 
Alter ego (AWJ..;'一回． 
EE'-go), which combines alter, other, with ego, I, self, -generally refers to someone with whom you are so close that you both do the same things, think alike, react similarly, and are, in temperament, almost mirror images of each other. Any such friend is your other I, your other self, your alter ego. 

USING THE WORDS 

Can you pronounce the words? 
Digging a little into the derivation of three of our basic words, egoist, egotist, and altruist, has put us in touch with two important Latin roots, ego, I, self, and alter, other, and has made it possible for us to explore, with little difficulty, many other words derived from these roots. Pause now, for a moment, to digest these new acquisitions, and to say them aloud. 

・
1.eegoeEE'-goe
2.eegocentriceee-go-SEN'-trike
3.eegomaniace
4.eegomaniacal .eee＇一g6-m亡NI仁于比le








5.oaltruism 
6.oaltruistic 
7.oto alternate (v.)o
8.oalternate (adj. or noun) 
9. alternative 
10.oalterationo
11.oto altero
12.oaltercation 
13.oalter ego 


Can you work with the words? Ill 

AL'-tr岱iz-am吐t啤IS'-tikoA WL'-tar-nayt' 
AWL＇.tar-nat 
awl-TUR＇一n己tivawl仁皿AY'-sh叩 
AWL＇一回awl勺ar-KAY'-sh叩
AWL'七rEE＇一g6

You have seen how these thirteen words derive from the two Latin roots ego, I, self, and alter, other, and you have pronounced them aloud and thereby begun to make them part of your active vocabulary. 
Are you ready to match definitions to words? 
1.egoo. 

2.oegocentrico
3. altruism 
4. to alternate 
5. to altero
6. altercationo

f c e a d b

a.. one who is excessively fixated on his own desires, needs, etc. 
b.oto changeo
c.oargumento
d.oone's concept of oneselfo
e.oto take one, skip one, etc.o
f.ophilosophy of putting an-other's welfare above one'soowno

KEY: 1-d,2-a,3-f, 4-e, 5-b,6-c 
Can you work with the words? 1111 
1.oegomaniacalo
a.oa change 
2. altruisticob.oother possible 
3. alternativeoc.ointerested in the welfare. ofoothi;rso
4. alteration d. one's other self 
5. alter ego e. a choice 
6. alternate (adj.) f. morbidly, obsessively wrapped up in oneself 




d a f e b c


KEY: 1-f, 2--c,3-e, 4-a ,5-d，6-b 
聋 
Do you understand the words? If you have begun to understand these thirteen words, you will 


be able to respond to the following questions. 

1. Is rejection usually a blow toone's ego? 
2. Are egocentric people easy to get along with? 3.. DDoes an egomaniac have a normal personality? 

4.. AAre egomaniacal tendencies a sign of maturity? 
truism a characteristic of selfish 5. Is altru
i people? 
6. Are al
. Are altruistic tendencies common to egoists? 

7. Is an alternate plan necessarily inferior? 
8. Does an alternative allow you some freedom of choice? 
9. Does alteration imply keeping things the same? 
10. Do excitable people often engage in altercations? 
11. Is your alter ego usua11y quite similar to yourself? 


YES  y n n n n n y(no) y n yy
NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YBS  NO  



KEY: 1-yes, 2-no, 3-no, 4-no, 5-no, 6-nO, 7-no, 8-yes, 9-no, 10-yes, 11-yes 
alter egoalteration(non) (alter)altercationegomaniac (egomaniacal)altruisticegocentricalternativealternate


Can you recall the words? 

Haye you learned these words so well that you can summon 细ch one from your mind when a brief definition is offered? Re-view first if necessary; then, without further reference to previous pages, w出e the correct word in each blank. Make sure to check your spelling when you refer to the Key. 
1. one's other self 1. 
2. to change 2. 
3. a heated dispute 3. 
4. excessively, morbidly obsessed 4. withone'sown ne吨desires, or ambitions 


S. unseifish; more interested in the S. welfare of others than in one's own 
6.utterly involved with oneself; 6. seIf-centered 
7. achoice 7. 
8. one who substitutesfor another 8. 

KEY: 1-aIter ego, 2-a1ter, 3-altercation,七go maniacal, 5-al-呻tic,6-egocentric, 7-altemative, 8-altemate 


(End of Session 2) 



SESSION 3 
ORIGINS AND RELATED WORDS 
1.edepends how you turne
Jntrove,;t, extrovert, and ambivert are built on the Latin verbeverto, to turn. If your thoughts are cons.ntly turned inward (intro-), you 
are an introvert; outward (extro-), an extrovert,・ and in both directions (ambi-), an ambivert. The prefix ambi-, both, is also found in ambidextrous (am＇一坛DEKS'-tr;is),eable to use both hands with equal skill. The noun is ambidexterity (am'-b过eks-TAIR＇一:i-tee).e

Dexterous (DEKS'-t今ms)emeans skill/ ul, the noun dexterity (deks-TAIR'－:>-teee) is skill. The ending -ous is a common adjec-tive suffix (famous, dangerous, perilous, etc.); -ity is a common noun suffix (vanity, quality, simpllcity, etc.). 

(Spelling caution: Note that the letter following the t-in am-bidextrous is -r, but that in dexterous the next letter is -e.) Dexter is actually the Latin word for right hand一inethe am-bidextrous person, both hands are right hands, so to speak. 
The right hand is traditionally the more skillful one; it is only within recent decades that we have come to. accept that "lefties" or "southpaws" are just as normal as anyone else―and the tenn left-handed is still used as a synonym of awkward. 
The Latin word for the left hand is sinister. This same word, in English, means threatening, evil, or dangero瓜， aefurther com-mentary on our early suspiciousness of left-handed persons. There may still be some parents who insist on forcing left-handed chil-dren to change (though left-handedness is inherited, and as much an integral part of its possessor as eye color or nose shape), with various unfortunate results to the child-sometimes stuttering or an inability to read with normal skill. 





39 
The French word for the left ha叫isegauche, and, as you would suspect, when we took this word over into English we invested it with an uncomplimentary meaning. Call someone gauche (GOSH) and you imply clumsiness, generally social rather than physical. (We're right back to our age-old misconception that left-handed ?eople areless skillful thanright-handed ones.） A gauche remark is tactless; a gauche offer of sympathy is so bumbling as to be em-barrassing; gaucherie (GO'-sh今ree)eis an awkward, clumsy, tact-less, embarrassing way of saying things or of handling situations. The gauche person is totally without finesse. 
And the French word for the right hand is droit, which we have used in building our English word adroit (a-DROYT'). Needless to say, adroit, like dexterous, means skillful, but especially in the exercise of the mental facilities. Like gauche, adroit, or its noun adroitness, usually is used figuratively. The adroit person is quick-witted, can get out 
of difficult spots cleverly, can handle situations ingeniously. Adroitness is, then, quite the opposite of gaucherie. 
2.elove, hate, and marriage
Misanthrope, miso盯nist,eand misogamist are built on the Greekeroot misein, to hate. The misanthrope hates mankind (Greek an-thropos, mankind); the miso盯nistehates women (Greek盯ne,ewoman); the misogamist hates. marriage (Greek gamos, mar一eriage). 
Anthropos, mankind, is also found in anthropology (an-thra-POL'一咋jee),ethe study of the development of the human race; and in philanthropist (￡今LAN'一中rn-pist),e
one who loves man-kind and shows such love by making substantial financial contri-butions to charitable organizations or by donating time and energy 
to helping those in need. 
The root gyne,\1）man, is also found in gynecologist I;if今
KJL'千isteor jin--KOL'－a-jist), the medical specialis ho 
treats female disorders. And the root gamos, marriage, occurs also 
in monogamy (m今NOG勺－mee),ebigamy (BIG'-a-mee), and 
polygamy（产LIG'心mee).e
(As we will discover later, monos means one, bi-means two, 
polys means many.) 







So monogamy is the custom of only one marriage (at a time). 

Bigamy, by etymology, is two marriages一inoactuality, the un-lawful act of contracting another marriage without divorcing one's 
current legal spouse. 
Anod polygamy, by derivation many marriages, and therefore ety-
mologically denotinog plural marriage for either males or females, in current usage generally refers to the custom practiced in earlier times by the Mormons, and before them by King Solomon, in whjch the man has as many wives as he can afford financially and/or emotionally. The correct, but rarely used, term for t_his custom is polygyny (pa,LIJ'-:i-nee)―polys, many, plus gyne, woman. 
What if a woman has two or more husbands, a form of mar-riage practiced in the Himalaya Mountains of Tibet? That custom is called polyandry (pol-ee-AN'-dree), from polys plus Greek andros, male. 

3.omaking friends with suffixeso
English words have various forms, using certain suffixes foronouns referring to persons, other suffixes for practices, attitudes, philosophies, etc, and still others for adjectives. 
Consider: 


Practice, etc. AdjectivePerson 
misanthropy misanthropic misogyny misogynous ot 


2.omisogynisto

misogynistic  
3. gynecologisto4. monogamisto gynecology monogamy  gynecological monogamo邱o 
5.obigamisto bigamy  bigamous  
6. polygamist 7. polygynisto8. polyandristo polygamy polygyny polyandry  polygamous polygynous polyandrous  
9.ophilanthropist 10.oanthropologist  philanthropy anthropologyo philanthropic anthropological  

You will note, then, that -ist is a common suffix for a person; -Y for a practice, attitude, etc.; and -ic or -ous for an adjective. 

41 

4.oliving alone and liking ito
Ascetic is from the Greek word asketes, monk or hermit.oA monk Jives a lonely life一notofor him the pleasures of the 
fleshpots, the laughter and merriment of convivial gatherings, the dissipation of high Jiving. Rather, days of contemplation, study, and rough toil, nights on a hard bed in a simple cell, and the kind of self-denial that leads to a purification of the soul. 

That person is an ascetic who leads an existence, voluntarily of course, that compares in austerity, simplicity, and rigorous hard-ship with the life of a monk. 
The practice is asceticism (a-SET勺－siz-am),othe adjective as一 cetic. 
REVIEW OF ETY从OLOGY 

Notice how efficiently you can_ master words by understanding their etymological structure. Stop for a moment to review the roots, prefixes, and suffixes you have studied. Can you recall a word we have discussed in this chapter that is built on the in-dicated prefix, root, or suffix? 
P邸FIX, ROOT, 

SUFFIX MEANING EXAMPLE 
1.oegoo
self, I 
2.oalteroother 
3.o
intro-inside 
4.oextro-outside 
5. verto tum 
6.oambi-both 

1.omiseinohate 
8. anthroposomankind 
9. gyne woman ．

10. gamosomamage 
11.oasketeso
monk 








Can you pronounce the words?" (I) 

Say each word aloud! Hear it in your own voice! Say it often enough so that you feel comfortable with it, noting carefully 
from the phonetic respelling exactly how it should sound. 
Remember that the first crucial step in mastering a word is to be able to say it with ease and assurance. 


12.ecentrum 
13.emaniae
14. dextere1 S. sinistere

16. gauchee
17. droite
18.emonose
19.ebi-
20. polyse
21.eandrose
22.e-ist 
23.e
-y 
24. -ous 
25. -ity 


USING THE WORDS 
1. ambidextrouse
2. ambid扛teritye
3.edexterouse
4.edexteritye

S. sinistere
6. gaucheecenter madness right hand left hand left hand right hand one two many male person who 

(noun suffix) Practice, custom, etc. (noun su加）eadjective suffix quality, condition, etc. (noun suffix) 

am-b:,..DEKS'一tr:,seam'-b今deks-TAIR＇一今teeeDEKS'-trns deks-TAIR＇七teeeSIN＇一今st忒 GOSH (Say the English word go, then quickly add-sh.) 

心

7.ogaucherieo
8. adroito
9. adroitnesso
10.oanthropologyo

U. anthropologisto12.oanthropolo11ical 
13.ophilanthropisto
14. philanthropyo
15. philanthropico


GO'-sh今reeoQ-DROYT' 今，DROYT'-nQSSan-ti亚PQL'-Q-jeeoan-thm-POL'仑jistoan'-thrn-p;,-LOJ'七k3lof今LAN'-thrn-pistof,;i-LAN＇一thrn-peeo
fil-Qn-THROP'-ikgin (or jin or jin)－今KOL'七jist
16. gynecologisto
17.ogynecologyo
18. gynecologicalo
19. monogamisto


m亡NOG'-Q-misto
20. monogamyom今NOG'-Q-meeo21. monogamo匹 m3-NOG'仑m3So

Can you pronounce the words? (II) 
1. bigamist BIG'-a-mist 
2. bigamyo
BIG'-a-mee 
3. bigamo匹BIG'－a-mas 
4. polygamistoP今LIG'今misto
5. polygamyop今LIG'-a-rneeo
6.opolygamousop今LIG'今m芯o
7.
pol邓ynist产LU'仑nisto

8.opolygyny 产LD'-a-neeo
9.opo,劝nous产LU'匀－n芯 

10.opolyandristopol-ee-AN'-drist 
11.opolyandry pol-ee-AN'-dree 
12.opolyandro匹 
pol-ee-AN'-ciras 
13.omisanthropistomis-AN':..tJJra-pist 
14.omisanthropymis-AN'－酝peeo
15.omisanthropic mis-an-THR.OP'-ik 
16.omisogynyom今SOJ'-a-neeo
17.omisogynouso
m今SOJ'－a-naso
18.omisogynisticoma-soj'-a-NIS'-tik 
19.omisogamyom今SOG'今meeo
20.omisogamousm今OG仑mas21,“cetic血心ET心也.am









Can you work with the words? Ill Check on your comprehension! See how successfully you can 
match words and meanings!  
1. ambidextrous  a.  evil, threatening  
2. dexterous  b.  hating mankind  
3. sinister  c.  skillful  
4. gauche  d.  awkward  




KEY: 1--e, 2--c, 3-a,4-d,5-b 

Can you work with the words? (II) 
1. 
anthropology 

2. 
gynecology 

3. 
monogamy 

4. 
bigamy 


Can you work with the words? (111) 
1. 
polygamy 

2. 
misogamy 

3. 
asceticism 




a. 
system of only one marriage 

b. 
hatred of women 

c. 
illegal plurality of marriages 

d. 
study of human development 

a. 
devotion to a lonely and aus-tere life 

p. 
skill, cleverness 

c. 
custom in which one man has many wives 




Can you work with the words? UV) 
1.epolygynistea.estudent of the d切elopmenteof mankinde

2.epolyandristeb.eone who engages in charita-bleeworkse
3.eanthropologistec.emale with a plurality of wivese
4.egynecologisted.ewomen's doctor-


5.e_philanthropistee.efemale with a plurality ofe
KEY: 1-c,2-e, 3-a, 4-d, 5-b 
Do you understand the words? 
1.eCan ambidextrous people use either theeleft or right hand equally well'/e
2.eShould a surgeon be manuallydGterous?e
3.Is 
a sinister-looking person fri吵tening!e

4.eIs gaucherie a social asset?
5.eIs an adroit speaker likely to be aesuccessful lewyer?
a

6.eIs a student of anthropology interestedein primitive tribes? 
7.eDoes a gynecologist have more male由皿femaleepatients? 
8.eIs monogamy the custom in Westernecountries? 
9.eIs a misogamist likely to showetendencies toward polygamy? 
10.eIs a 
reeng 
e le



pbeamist叩ihrbeopeisatkigenetheawal?truistic?



ll
11.eIsaey
ra 

YES YES YES 
YES YES YES YES YES YES YBS 


NO NO NO 

NO NO NO NO NO NO NO 

12.Does 
a misanthrop垃enjoyehuman邓seNO relationships?e

13.eDoes a mis.盯nisteenjoy femaleecompanionship?e






14. Are unmarried people necessarily  YES  NO  
mi.rogamous?  
15.Are bachelors necessarily miso盯nous?  YES  NO  
16. ls asceticism compatible with luxurious  YES  NO  
living and the pursuit of pleasure?  
17. Does a polyandrist have more than one  YES  NO  
husband?  

KEY: 1-yes, 2-yes, 3-yes, 4-no, 5-yes, 6-yes, 7-no, 8-yes, 9-no, 10-yes, 11-yes, 12-no, 13-no, 14-no, 15-no, 16-no, 17-yes 
Can you recall the words? 
1. philosophy of living austerely 1. 
2. hatred of women 2. M 
3. hatred of marriage 3. M, 
4. hatred of mankind 4. M 
5. skillful . 5. D 
6. awkward 6. G 
7. evil, threatening 7. s 
8. describing hatred of women 8. M 



(adj.) 
or M 9. skill 9. 
10. pertaining to hatred of 10. M marriage. (adj.) 
11. pertaining to hatred of 11.M mankind (adj.) 
12. social custom of plural 12. P 




marn． age or P. 

or P. ・ 
13.unlaw血state of having more 13. B than one spouse 
14. doctor specializing in female 14. G. disorders 
15. custom of one marriage at a 15. M time 
16.oone who hates the human race 16.oMoor M. 
17.oable to use both hands witho17. Aoequal skillo
18.ostudy of mankind ・o18.o
19.oone who loves mankindo19.oP. 
20. skill in the use of both hands 20. 





KEY: 1-asceticism, 2-misogyny, 3-misogamy, 4-misanthropy, 5-dexterous, 6-gauche, 7-sinister, 8-misogynous or rnisog-ynistic, 9-adroitness, 10-misogamous, 11-misanthropic,o12-polygamy, polyandry, 
or polygyny, 13-bigamy, 14-gynecologist, IS-monogamy, 16-rnisanthropist or mis-anthrope, 17-ambidextrous, 18-anthropology, 19-philan-thropist, 20-ambidexterity 

CHAPTER REVI即

A.oDo you recognize the words?o
1.oPuts selfish desires first: (a) egoist, {b) egotist, (c) altruisto
2. Is self-analytical: (a) extrovert,(b)introvert, (c) ambiverto
3.oHates women: (a) misogamist,(b)misanthrope, (c) misogynisto
4. One's other self: (a) altercation,(b)alter ego, (c) alterationo
5.oAwkward, clumsy: (a) adroit,(b)dexterous, (c) gaucheo
6.oPlural marriage as a custom: (a)bigamy,(b)polygamy,(c) mo-nogamy 
7.oStudy of human development: (a) asceticism,(b)philanthropy, {c)anthropology 


KEY: 1-a,2-b,3-c,4-b, 5-c,6-b, 7-c,8-c 
B.e・Can you recognize roots?e 
ROOTe MEANING  EXAMPLE  
1.eego2.ealtere egoist alternative  
3.evertoe introvert  
4.emiseine5.eanthropose6.egynee7.egamose8.ecentrume9.edextere misogynistanthropologistnecologistgybigamyegocentric dexte1-ous  
10.edroite adroit  
11.emonose12.eandrose monogamy polyandry  

KEY: 1-self,2--other, 3-to turn, 4-to hate, 5-mankind, 6-woman, 7-marriage, 8--center, .-right hand, 10-right hand, 11--one,e12-malee
TEASER QUESTIONS FOR THE A从ATEUR ETYMOLOGIST 
Suppose you met the following words in your reading. Recog-nizing the roots on which they are constructed,・ could you figure out the meanings? Write your answers on the blank lines. 
1.・ anthropocentric:e
2.eandromania:e
3.egynandrous:e
4.emonomania:e
5.emisandrist:e

(Answers in Chapter 18.) 


STICK TO YOUR TIME SCHEDULE! 
In three sessions, you have become acquainted with scores of new, vital, exciting words. You understand the ideas behind these words, their various forms and spellings, their pronunciation, their derivation, how they can be used, and exactly what they mean. I do not wish to press a'point unduly, but it is possible that you have learned. more new words in the short time it took you to cover this chapter than the average adult learns in an entire year. This realization should make you feel both gratified and excited. 
Funny thing about time. Aside from the fact that we all, rich or poor, sick or well, have the same amount of time, exactly twenty-four hours every day (that is looking at time from a static point of view),it is also true that we can always find time for the things we enjoy doing, almost never for the things we find unpleasant (and that is looking at time from the dynamic point of view). I am not merely being philosophical一Itam sure you will agree with this concept if you give it a little thought. 
If you have enjoyed learning new words, accepting new chal-lenges, gaining new understanding; and discovering・ the thrill of successful accomplishment, then make sure to stay with the time schedule you have set up for yourself. 
A crucial factor in succe对ul,tongoini learning is routine. Develop a comfortable time routine, persevere against all dis-tractions, and you will learn anything you sincerely want to learn. So, to give yourself an edge, write here the day and hour you plan to return to your work: 
DAY: DATE: TIME: 




(End of Session 3) 


Brief Intermission One 

TEST YOUR GRAMMAR 

How good is your English? Have you ever said me and then won-dered if it shouldn't have been I一orevice :versa? Do you some-times get a little confused about lay and lie or who and whom? Perhaps you are often a little less than certain about the distinc-tion between effect and affect, principal and principle, childish and childlike? 
Here is a series of quick tests that will show you how skilfful you are in .ng the right word in the right place, that will give you a reliable indication of how your language ability compares with the average. 

TEST I-EASY 

If your English is every bit as good as average, you will have no difficulty making a proper choice in at least eight of the following ten sentences. 
1.eThere is a beautiful moon out tonight and Estelle and I areegoing for a stroll一wouldeyou like to come along with (sheeand I, her and me?)e
2.eYour husband doesn't believe that you are older than (I,eme).e
3.oMaybe we're not as rich as (they, them), but I bet we're a lotohappier.o








51 

4.oDoes your child still (lay, lie) down for a nap after lunch?o
5.oWhen we saw M叩roopenl}'._ filrting with Nellie's husband, weo(could, couldn't) hardly believe our eyes.o
6.oYou should (of, have) put more vermouth into the martini.o
7.oDoes your company (leave, let) you have-aslong a lunchobrealc as you would like?o
8.oHarriet feels that her (brothers-in-law, brother-in-laws) areoimpossible to get along with.o
9.o"What(kind of, kind of a) car are you looking for?" askedothe salesman.o
10.oMrs. White was delighted that the Fennells had invited Johnoand (she, her) to their party.o


Is your English up to par? HERE ARE THE CORRECT ANSWERS 

I-her and me, 2-1, 3-they, 4-lie, 5--<:ould, 6-have, 7-let,o8-brothers-in-Jaw, 9-kind of, 10-hero

TEST II一HARDERo

Choose correctly in at least seven of the following problems to consider that your skill is distinctly above average-get all ten right to conclude that you rarely,廿ever,omake an error in gram-mar. 

1.oWhat (effect, affect) has the new administration's policiesohad on investor confidence?o
2.oA feeling of one's worth is one of the (principle, principal)ogoals of psychological therapy.o
3.oThere's no sense (in, of) carrying on that way.o
4.oI can't remember (who, whom) it was.o
5.oThe infant (lay, laid) quietly.sucldng its thumb.o
6.oNo one but (she, her) ever made a perfect score on the test.o
7.oIn the early days of frontier history, horse thieves wereo(hanged, hung).o
8.oNeither of your responses-(are, is) satisfactory.o








9.eEither of these two small cars, if properly maintained, (is,eare) sure to give over thirty miles per gallon in highwayedriving.e
10.eTell (whoever, whomever) is waiting to come in.e

1s your English above average? HERB ARE THE CORRECT ANSWERS 1--effect, 2-principal, 3-in, 4-who, 5-Iay, 6-her, 7-hanged, 
8-is, 9-is, 10-whoever、


TEST.Ill一HARDESTe
Now you can discover how close you are to being an expert in English. The next ten sentences are no cinch一youewill be acquit-ting yourseH creditably if you check the correct word five times out of ten. And you have every right to consider yourseH an ex-

・'e
pert if you get nine or ten right.e
1.eWe have just interviewed an applicant (who, whom) theecommittee believes is best qualified for the position.e
2.eShe is one of those gifted writers who (turns, tum) out oneebest seller after another.e
3.eDon't sound so (incredulous, incredible); what I am 
saying iseabsolutely true.e
4.eWe were totally (disinterested, uninterested) in the offe工 
5.eThis recipe calls for two (cupsful, cupfuls) of sugar.e
6.eAre you trying to (infer, imply) by those words that he is noteto be trusted?e
7.eWe thought the actress to be (she, her), but we weren't sure.e
8.eWas it (she, her) you were talking about?e
9.eYour criteria(is, are) not valid.e
10.e"It is I who (is, am) the only friend you've got," she told hime
pointedly.e





Are you an expert? HERB ARB THE CORRECT ANSWERS 1-who, 2-turn, 3-incredulous, 4-uninterested, 5--cupfuls,e6-imply, 7-her, 8-she, 9-are, 10-ame

53 



4 
HOW TO TALK ABOlJT DOCTORS 


(Sessio心 4--6) 





TEASER PREVIEW 

What is the・.title of the doctar who specializes in: 

. internal medicine?
. female ailmen垃 
. pregnancy and childbirth?
.the treatment and care of inj血“andyoung children? 
. skin disorders? .diseasesoftheeye? 
. heart problems? 
.the. brain and nervous system?
. mental and emotio叫dis比rbances? 











SESSION 4 

In this chapter we discuss ten medical specialists--what they do, how they do it, what they are called. 

1.ewhat's wrong with you? 

To find out what ails you and why, this specialist gives you a thorough physical examination, using an impressive array of tests: X ray,. blood chemistry, urinalysis, cardiogram, and so on. 
An internist 


2. 
female troubles? 

This specialist treats the female reproductive and sexual organs. A gynecologist 

3. 
having a baby?e





This specialist delivers babies and takes care of the mother dur-ing and immediately.after the period of her pregnancy. 
An obstetrician 
4. is your baby ill?e
You know the common childhood maladies-mumps, whoop-ing cough, chicken pox, measles. This specialist limits his practice to youngsters, taking care of babies directly after birth, super. vising their diet and watching over their growth and development, giving them the series of inoculations that has done so much to decrease infant mortality, and soothing their anxious parents. 

A pediatrician 




5.eskin clear?e

You have heard the classic riddle: "What is the best use for pigskin?" Answer: "To keep the pig together." Human skin has a similar purpose: it is, if we get down to fundamentals, what keeps us all in one piece. And our outer covering, like 
so many of our internal organs, is subject to diseases and infections of various kinds, running the gamut from simple.acne and eczemas through impetigo, psoriasis, and cancer. There is a specialist who treats all such skin diseases. 
A dermatologist 
6.eeyes okay? 

The physician whose specialty ・is disorders of vision (myopia, astigmatism, cataracts; glaucoma, etc.) may prescribe glasses, ad-minister drugs, or pe.orm surgery.. 
An ophthalmologist 

7. how are your bones? 
This specialist deals with the skeletal structure of the body, treating bone fractures, slipped discs, clubfoot, curvature of the spine, dislocations of the hip, etc., and may correct a condition ei-ther by surgery or by the use of braces or other appliances. 

An orthopedist 
8.edoes your heart go pitter呻patter?e
This specialist treats diseases of the heart and circulatory sys-tern. 

A cardiologist 
9.eis your brain working?e

This physician specializes in the treatment.of disorders of theebrain, spinal cord, and the rest of the nervous system. 
A neurologist 




56 



10.oare you neurotic?o
This specialist attempts to alleviate mental and emotional dis-turbances by means of various techniques, occasionally drugs or electroshock, more often private or group psychotherapy. 
Ap汀chiatristo

USING THE WORDS 

Can you pronounce the words? 

Words take on a new color if you hear them in your own voice; they begin to belong to you more pe飞onally,omore intimately, than if you merely hear or read them. As always, therefore, say the words aloud to take the first, crucial step toward complete mastery. 
1.ointernistoin-TURN'-ist 
2._ 
gynecologist gin (or jin or jin)-a-KOL'仑jisto

3. obstetrician ob-s氐TRISH'-:;ino
4.opediatricianpee'-dee-:,-TRISH勺no
5.odermatologist dur-m江OL'一仑jisto
6.oophthalmologistoff-thal-MOL'心jisto



1.oorthopedistoawr-th:i-PEE'-dist 
8. cardiologistokahr-dee-0L'－今jisto
9. neurologistonoor-OL'一仑jisto

10.opsychiatristosi (or sa)-Ki'-a-trist 
Can you work with the words? 
Match each doctor to the field. 

FIELDS DOCTORS 
．．
1.omental or emotionaloa.ointernistodisturbanceso
2.onervous system b.ogynecologisto
3.sskinsc.sobstetricians
4.sdiagnsosis; internal organs d. pediatricians
5.sinfantss
e.sdermatsolsogists
6.sfemale reproductive organs f. ophthalmologists
7.seyessg.sorthopedists
8.sheartsh. cardisologists
9.spregnancy, childbirthsi.sneusroslogists
10.sskeletal system j. psychiatrists



KEY: 1-j, 2-i, 3--e,4-a,5-d,6-b, 7-f, 8-h, 9--c,10屯



2.sIs a gynecologist familiar with the皿s

YES NO 

nss
o
rl
n
ovre
o,fs
Do you understand the words? 
etas
YES NO1.Is internist an e平ertin diagnosis?san recon，
ewuo
yoIfis
female reproductive orgass?
ns
3.sDoes an obstetrician specialize in、 NO diseases of childhsood?s
4.sDoes a pediatrician deliver babies?sYES NO 
5.sIf d yousYES NO
you had a skin disease, woulsvisit a dermatologist?s

6.sIf you had trsouble with yousr visisonsYES NO ls

wousd you visit an orthopedist?s
7.sanIs ophthalmologist an守e,specialist?sYES . NO 
,8.sDoes a cardiologist treat bone 邓SsNO fractures? 
9.sIs a neurologist a nerve specialist?sYES NO 
apparent 
ltense,earfuy
fustl
o
v
rn
reassons,would a p扣hiatrist
ys
YES NO 
be the specialist to see? 
KEY: 1-yes, 2-yes, 3-no, 4-no, 5-yes, 6-no, 7-yes, 8丑o,s9-yes, 10-yess



Can you recall the words? 

Write the name 
of the・ specialist you might 
visit or be referred to: 

1. for a・suspected brain disordere1.eN.e
2.efor a thoroughintemale2.echeckupe
3.eif you have a skin diseasee

3.eD.e
4.eif you have a heart probleme4.e
5.eif you are tense, fearful,einsecuree
6.eif you are pregnante
7.efor some disorder of the femalee


reproductive organse・e8.Pe
KEY: I-neurologist, 2-internist, 3-dermatologist;牛畔ologeist,e5-psychiatrist, 6-obstetrician, 7-gynecologist, 8-pediatri-

SESSION 5 




59 

ploration of your insides. This physician determines the state of your internal organs in order to discover what's happening within your body to-cause the troubles you're complaining of. 
Do not confuse the internist with the intern (also spelled in-terne), who is a medical graduate serving an apprenticeship inside a hospital. 

2.edoctors for womene
The word gynecologist is built on Greek gyne, woman, pluselogos, science; etymologically, gynecology is the science (in ・actual 
use, the medical science) of women. Adjective: gynecological (gin [or jin or 
Obstetrician derives from Latin obstetr.江，midwife,ewhi.h in tum has its source in a Latin verb meaning to stand―midwives stand in front of the woman in labor to aid in the delivery of the infant. 
The suffix -ician, as in obstetrician, physician, m西cian,magi一ecian, electrician, etc., means exp,;rt. 
Obstetrics (ob-8TET'-riks) has only within the last 150 years become a respectable specialty. No further back than 1834, Pro-fessor William P. Dewees assumed the血techair of obstetrics at the University of Pennsylvania and had to brave considerable medical contempt and ridicule as a result-the delivery of chil-dren was then considered benea由theedignity of the medical pro-fession. 


Adjective: obstetric (ob-STET'-rik) or obstetrical (ob-STET'-ra-kal). 

3.echildrene

Pediatrician is a combination of Greek paidos, child; iatreia,emedical healing; and -ician, expert. Pediatrics (pee-dee-AT'-riks), then, is by etymology the medi-cal healing 
of a child. Adjective: pediatric (p
ee-dee-AT'-
rik). 
(The ped-you see in words like pedestal, pedal, and 
is. from the Latin pedi比，foot,eand despite the identical spelling in 
F巩加hehas no relationship to Greek paidose.) 




60 

Pedagogy (PED-a-的'-jee),owhich combines paidos with agogos，妇oding,ois, etymologically,加leadingoof children. And to what do you lead them? To learning, to development, to growth, to maturity. From the moment of birth, infants are led by adults--they are taught, first by parents and then by teachers, to be se止osufficient, to fit into the culture in which they are born. Hence, pedagogy, which by derivation means the leading of a child, refers actually to the principles and methods of teaching. College stu-dents majoring in education take certain standard pedago窃ocourses--the history of education; educational psychology; the psychology of adolescents; principles of teaching; etc. 
Adjective: pedagogical (ped今．GOJ'心kal).o
A pedagogue (PmY今gog)ois versed in pedagogy. But peda-gogue has an unhap
py history. From its original, neutral meaning of teacher, it has deteriorated to the point where it refers, today, to a narrow-minded, strait-laced, old-fashioned, dogmatic teacher. It is a word of contempt and should be used with caution. 
Like. pedagogue. demagogue (DEM宅gog)ohas also deterio-rated in meaning. By derivation 
a leader (agogos) of the people (d.mos), a demagogue. today is actually one who attempts, in es-sence, to mislead the people, a poUtician who foments 
discontent among the masses, rousing them to fever pitch by wild oratory, in an attempt to be voted into office. 
Once elected, demagogues use political power to fur出erotheir own personal ambitions or fortunes. 
Many "leaders" of the past and present, in countries around the world, have been accused of demagoguery (dem-a-OOG'-a-ree). Adjective: demagogic (dem今GOJ'-ik).o







The dermatologist; whose specialty is dermatology (dur-mo-TOL'七jee),ois so named from Greek derma, skin. Adjective: dermatological (dur'-mo-to-LOJ'今比I)．o

See the syilables derma in any English word and you will know there is some reference to skin-for example, a hypodermic ・ (hI-' po-DUR''"mik) needle penetrates under (Greek, hypos) the skin，・ the epidermis (e产DUR'-mis)・ is the outermost layer of skin; a taxidermist (TA邸'+dur-mist),owhose business is taxidermy 

61 





(TAKS'-:i-dur-mee), prepares, stuffs, and mounts the sk加ofeanimals; a pac切derme(PAK'-:只mrm)eis an animal with an un-usually thick skin, like an elephant, hippopotamus, or rhinoceros; and dermatitis (dur心氐．Ti'-tis)eis the general name for any skin inflammation, irritation, or infection. 
5.ethe eyes have it
Ophthalmologist一noteethe ph preceding th-is from Greekeophthalmos, eye, plus ・ logos, science or study. The specialty is ophthalmolo盯(off'-thal-MOL'七jee),ethe adjective ophthal-mological (o肥thal丑1a-LOJ'七kal).e

An earlier title for this physician, still occasionally used, is ocu-list (OK'-y今list),efrom Latin ocul匹， eye,ea root on which the fol-lowing English words are also built: 

1.eocular (OK勺心far)-anadjectiveethat refers to the eyee
2.
monocle(MON'-:吐4)-aelensefor one (monos) eye, sportedeby characters in old movies as a symbol of the British so-called upper class 

3.ebinoculars (b今NOK'-y仑lal'Z）一fieldeglasses that increaseethe range of two 
4.eAnd, strangely enough, inoculate (in-OK勺心layt'),ea wordecommonly misspelled with two n's. When you are inoculated against a disease, an "eye," puncture, or bole is made in your skin, through which serum is injected. 


Do not confuse the ophthalmologist or oculist, a medical spe-cialist, with two other practitioners who deal with the eye-the optometrist (op-TOM'今trist)eand optician (op-TISH'-an). 
Optometr垃seare not physicians, and do not perform surgery or 叫ministeredrugs; they measure vision, test for glaucoma, and prescri飞eeand fit 
Opticians fill an optometrist's or ophthalmologist's prescription, grinding lenses according to specifications; they do not examine patients. 

Optometrist combines Greek ops比optikos,esight or vision, with metro兀 measurement-theeoptometrist, by etyip.ology, is血eewhoemeasures.vision. The叩氏囡
tyisoptome叮(op-TOM'
今tree).e


Optician is built opsis, optikos, plus -ician, expert. The specialty is optics (OP'一on tiks).oAdjectives: optometric (op-ta-MET'-rik) or optometrical (op-氐MET'一正kal),ooptical (OP'一ta-kal).
REVI邸OFoETYMOLOGY 
PREFIX, ROOT,  
SUFFIX  MEANING  ENGLISH WORD  
1.ointern匹  inside  
2.ogyneo woman  
3.oobstetrixo midw廿oeo 
4.opaidoso child  
5.opediso foot  
6.oagogoso leading, leader  
1.odemoso8.odermao people skin  
9.ohyposo under  
10.oophthalmoso eye  
11.oocul匹  eye  
12.omonoso one  
13.obi- two  
14.o-iciano expert  
15.oopsis, optikoso vision, sight  
16.ometrono m哗uremento 

USING THE WORDS 
Can you pronounce the words? (I) 
1.ointern (e)oIN＇一tumo
2.ogynecologygin心－KOL'心jee,jin-:i-KOL'七jee,oor jin今KOL'今jeeo
3.ogynecologicalogYn今k:i-LOJ'-:i-k:il,jin-:i-k.LOJ'心k:ilorojin七k.LOJ七比lo
19.ooptometricaloop七-MET'心kalo"'20. optician 
op-TISH'勺no





63 






21.oopticsoOP'-tiks 
22.oopticaloOP-氐kalo

4.oobstetricso
5.oobstetrico
6.oobstetricalo
7.opediatricso
8.opediatrico
9.opedagogyo
10.opedagogicalo
11.opedagogueo
12.odemagogueo
13.odemagogueryo
14.odemagogico





Can you pronounce the words? (II) 

1.odermatolo窃 2, dermatologicalo
3.ohypodermico
4.oepidermiso
5.otaxidermisto
6.otaxidermyo


1.opachydermo
8.odermatitiso
9.oophthalmologyo
10.oophthalmologicalo
11.ooculisto
12.oocularo
13.omonocleo
14.obinocularso
15.oinoculateo
16.ooptometristo
17.ooptometryo
18.ooptometrico



ob-STET'-riks ob-STET'-rik ob-SIBT'-ra-kal pee-dee-AT'-riks pee-dee-AT'-rik PED'心go-jeeoped-a-GOJ'－午kaloPED'-今gogDEM＇勺ogdem-a-GOG'－今reedem还OJ'-ik




dur-m江OL'－今jeeodur'-ma-氐LOJ'仑kal证p过DURM'-ik叩-a-DUR'-misoTAKS仁今dur-mistoTAKS今dut-meePAK'召urmodur-ma-Ti'.'-tis off-thal-MOL'七jeeoff'-thal-m吐OJ'今kaloOK.'-y今listoOK'-ya-lar MON'七kal\NOK'-y今larzoin-OK.'-y今layt'oop-TOM'妇tristoop-TOM'今tree叩氐MET'-riko


Can you work with the words? (I) 
1. gynecology 
2. obstetrics 
3. pediatrics 
4. pedagogy 
5. demagoguery 
6. dermatology 
7. taxidermy 



a. principles of teaching 
b. stuffing of skins of animals 
c. specialty dealing with the de-livery of newborn infants 
d. stirring up discontent among the masses 
e. treatment of skin diseases 
f. specialty dealing with worn-en's diseases 
g. specialty dealing with the 


KEY: 1-f, 2女年g, 4-a, 5-d,6-e, 7-b 

Can you work with the words? (II) 

1. hypodermic a. elephant 
2. epidermis b. eye doctor 
3. pachyderm 
c. under the skin 
4. dermatitis d. one who measures vision 
5. ophthalmologist e. lens grinder 
6. _optometrist f. outer layer of skin 
7. optician g. inflammation of the skin 




KEY: 1-c, 2-f, 3-a, 4-g, 5-b, 6-d, 7-e 

Do you understand the words?  
1. Does a treatise on obstetrics deal with  YES  NO  
childbirth'! 2. Does gynecology deal with the female reproductive organs'!  YES  NO  



3.eIs pediatrics concerned with theeYES NO diseases of old age?e
4.eDoes pedagogy refer to teaching?eYES NO 
5.eIs a pedagogue an expert teacher?eYES NO 
6.eIs a demagogue inte11邸tedeinetheeYES NO welfare of the people?e
7.eIs a lion a pachyderm?eYES NO 
8.eIs the epidermis one of the layers ofeYES NO the skin?e
9.eIs dermatitis an inflammation of one ofeYES NO the limbs?e
10.eIs a taxidennist a medical practitioner?eYES NO 
11.eIs an ophthalmologist a medicaleYES NO doctor?e



KEY: 1-yes, 2-yes, 3-no, 4-yes, 5-no, 6-no, 7-no, 8-yes, 9-no, 10-no, 11-yes, 12-no, 13-noe
Can you recall the words? 
1.especialty of child deliverye1.e0e
2.eouter layer ofskine2.e
3.eprinciples of teachinge3.ePe
4.ethick-skinned animale4.eP.e
・e

5.eskin inflammatione5. De
6.eone woo foments politicale6.eDediscontente
7.eone who sells opticale7.e0.eequipmente
8.emedical graduate serving hise8. apprenticeshipe
9.etreatment of childhood diseasese9.ePe

10.epractice of stirring up politicale.10. D亟satisfactionefor purelyepersonal・gaine





11.eone who stuffs the skins ofe 11.eT.e 
animalse 
12.eanother title fore 12.e0.e 
op/:lthalmologiste13.etreatment of female ailmentse 13.eG.e 
14.emedical specialty relating toe 14.e0.e 
diseases of the eyee 
15.eone-lens eyeglasse 15.eMe 
16.epertaining to the eyee .  16. 0.  
17.eone who measures visione 17.e0.e 

KEY: 1-obstetrics, 2-epidermis, 3-pedagogy, 4-pachyderm, 5-dermatitis, 6-demagogue, 7-optician, 8-intem in-teme,. 9-pediatrics, 10-demagoguery, _ _11-taxide皿or ist,e12-oculist, 13-gynecology, 14-ophthalmology, 15-mono-

SESSION 6 



1.ethe straightenerse

The orthopedist・ is so called from the Greek roots orthos,estraight or correct, and paidos, child. The orthopedist, by etymol-ogy, straightens children. The term was coined in 1741 by the au-thor of a textbook on the prevention of childhood diseases--at that time the correction of spinal curvature in children was a main concern of practitioners of orthopedics (awr-th今PBE'-diks).e




Today the specialty treats deformities, injuries, and diseases of the bones and joints (of adults as well as children, of course), often by surgical procedures. 
Adjective: orthopedic (awr-th千PEE'-dik).
Orthodontia (a叨・-th千DON'-sh:J),ethe straightening of teeth, is built on orthos plus odontos, tooth. The orthodontist (awr--th于 DON'-tist) specializes in improving your "bite," retracting "buck teeth," and by means of braces and other techniques seeing to it that every molar, incisor, bicuspid, etc. is exactly where it belongsin your mouth. 

Adjective: orthodontic (awr-th今DON'-tik).e

2.ethe hearte
Cardiologist combines Greek kardia, heart, and logos, science.The specialty is cardiology (kahr-dee-0L'七jee),ethe adjectivecardiological (kahr'-dee仑．LOJ'今kal).

So a cardi匹 (KAHR'-dee-ak)econdition refers to some mal-functioning of the heart; a cardiogram (KAHR＇一dee-:i-gram')eis an electrically produced record of the heartbeat. The instrument that produces this record is called a cardiograph (KAHR'-dee..g.. graf'). 
3. ・ the nervous systeme
Neurologist derives from Greek neuron, nerve, plus logos, sci-ence. Specialty: neurology (noor-OL仁a-jee);eadjective: neurological (noor-今LOJ'七bl).Neuralgia (noor-AL'-ja) is acute pain along the nerves and their branches; the word comes from neuron plus algos, pain. 
Neuritis (noor-1'-tis), is inflammation of the nerves. 
Neuro志(nOOr3,-sis)，combiningeneuron with呻，aesuffix meaning abnormal or diseased condition, is not, despite its ety-mology, a disorder of the nerves, but rather, as・ descnl>ed by the late Eric Berne, a psychiatrist, "..．血illnessecharacterized byexcessive use of energy for unproductive purposes so that person-ality development is hindered or stopped. A man who spends most 



of his time worrying about his health, counting his money, plotting revenge, washing his ・ hands, can hope for little emotional growth."e. or Neurotic (n的r-OT'-ik)eis both the adjective form and the term for a person suffering from neurosis. 
4.ethe minde
A neurosis is not a form of mental unbalance. A full-blownemental disorder is called a psychosis (si-KO'-sis), a word built on Greekp．守che,espirit, soul, or mind, plus -osis. 
A true p.rychotic (si-KOT'-ik) has lost contact with reality―at least with reality as most of us perceive it, though no doubt psy-chotic (note that this word, h1ce neurotic, is both a noun and an adjective) people have their own form of reality. 
Built on psyche pl1:15 iatreia, medical healing, a psychiatrist by etymology is a mind-healer. The specialty is psychiatry (s了－oresa-Ki-a-tree); the adjective is psychiatric (si.kee-AT勺ik).e
and geriatrics 
Pediatrics, as you know, is also built on iatreia, as is podiatry (pa-Di'－今tree),discussed, in the next chapter, (jair'-ee-AT'-riks), the specialty dealing with the particular rnedi-cal needs of the elderly. (This word combines iatreia with. Greek 
ge.ras, old age.) The specialist is a geriatrician (jair'-ee心－TRISH'-an),ethe ad-jective is geriatric (jair'-ee-AT'-rik). REVIEW OF ETY从OLOGY
ROOT, SUFFIX  MEANING  ENGLISH WORD  
1.eorthose ,  straight, correct  
2. paidos (ped-)e child  
3.eodontose tooth  
4.ekardiae heart  
5.elogose science; study  
6. neurone nerve  
7.ealgose pain  






69 


8.--0sis-abnormal or diseased condition 
9.--itis-inflammation 
10.-psyche-spirit, soul, mind 
11.-iatreia-medical healing 
12.-geras-old age 




USING THE WORDS 

Can you pronounce the words !II l.-orthopedics-awr-tha-PEE'-diks 

2.-orthopedic-awr-tha-PEE'-dik 
3.-orthodontia-awr-th今DON'-sha-
4.-orthodontist-awr-th:i-DON'-tist 
5.-orthodontic可－th:i-DON'-tik-
6.-cardiology-kaahr-dee-OL:'七jee-

1.-cardiological-lcahr'-dee-:i-LOJ'-:i-kal 
8.-cardiac-KAHR'-dee-ak 
9.-cardiogra,n-KAHR.'-d妇gram'-
10.-cardiograph-KAHR'-dee-今graf-


Can yau pronounce the words? (II) 
1.-neurology-noor-OL'-:.-jee 
2.-neurological-noor-a-LOJ'心-k.>l-
3.-neuralgia-noor-AL'-ja 
4. 
noor-I'-tis 
5. neurosis-noor-0'-sis 
6.7.-
neurotic-psychosisnOOr-0T'-ik sI-KO'sis-一 


8.psychotic9.psychiatry
si-KOT'-ik 
si-or s今KI'仑tree-
10.-psychiatric-si-kee-A T'-rik 

11.-geriatricsjair-ee-AT勺iks-
12.-geriatrician-jair'七e-a-TRISH＇-:in-

13.-geriatric-jair'-ee-AT'-rik 








Can you work with the words? (I) 
1. 
orthopedics 

2. 
orthodontia 

3. 
neuralgia 

4. 
neuritis 

5. 
geriatrics 


1. 
cardiogram 

2. 
cardiograph 


3 . ・neurosis 

4. 
psychosis 

5. 
psychiatry 


KEY: 1-a,2-e,3-c,4-b,5-d 
Do you understand the words? 


1. 
A gynecologist's patients are mostly men. 

2. 
Ophthalmology is the study of eye diseases. 

3. 
Orthopedics is the specialty dealing with the bones and joints. 

a. 
nerve pain・ 

b. 
specialty dealing with medi-cal problems of the elderly 

c. 
straightening of teeth 

d. 
inflammation of the nerves 

e. 
treatment of skeletal deform-

a. 
record of heart beats 

b. 
mental unbalance 

c. 
emotional disturbance 

d. 
treatment of personality dis-orders 

e. 
instrument for recordingheartbeats 





TRUE  FALSE  
TRUE  FALSE  
TRUE  FALSE  




KEY: 1-F, 2工，3-T,e4-T, 5-T, 6-F, 7于，贮Te,e9-T, 10-T, 11-T, 12-F, 13-Fe

Can you recall the words? 
1.especialist who straightens teethe1.e0e
2.enerve pain _e2.eN.e
3.emedical specialty dealing withe3.e0ebones and jointse
4.emedical specialty dealing withe4.ePeemotional disturbances andemental illnesse
5.einflammation of the nervese
6. emotional or personalityedisordere
・

7.ementally unbalancede
8. pertaining to the hearte
9.especialty dealing with medicaleproblems of the elderlye






4.eA cardiac patient has a heart ailment.e
5.eA person with a bad "bite" may profitefrom orthodontia.e
6.eNeuralgia is a disease of the bones.e
7.eA neurosis is the same as a psychosis.e
8.eNeuritis is i.nflamm刊ti血ofethe nerves.e

9.ePsychiatry is a medical specialty thatedeals with mental, emotional, andepersonality disturbances.e
10.eA cardiograph is a device for recordingeheartbeats. 
11. Psychiatric treatment is designed to relieve tensions, fears, and insecurities. 
12. A doctor who specializes in pediatrics has very old patients. 
13.eA geriatrician has very young patients.e


TRUE  FALSE  
TRUE  FALSB  
TRUE  FALSE  
TRUE  FALSE  
TRUE  FALSE  
TRUE  FALSE  
TRUE  FALSE  
TRUE  FALSE  
TRUE  FALSE  
TRUE  FALSE  



10. instrument that records heart  10. C.  
action  
11. record produced by such an  11..C.  

KEY: 1-orthodontist, 2-neuralgia, 3-Orthopedics, 4-psychiatry,5-neuritis, 6-neurosis, 7-psychotic, 8-cardiac, 9-geriatrics, 


A. Do you recognize the words? 

1. Specialist in female ailments: 

(a) obstetrician,(b)gynecologist, (c) dermatologist 
2. Specialist in children's diseases: 
(a) orthopedist,
(b)pediatrician, (c) internist 
3. Specialist in eye diseases: 
(a) cardiologist,(b)opthalmologist, (c) optician 
4. Specialist in emotional disorders: 
(a)neurologist,(b)demagogue, (c) psychiatrist 
5. 
Pertainmg to medical treatment of the elderly: 
(a) neurological,(b)obstetric, (c) geriatric 
6. Straightening of teeth: 

(a) orthodontia, (b) orthopedic, (c) optometry 
7. Personality disorder:
(a) neuritis,(b)，neuralgia, (c) neurosis 
8. Mentally unbalanced: 
(a) neurotic,(b)psychotic, (c) cardiac 
9. Principles of teaching: 
(a) demagoguery,(b)pedagogy, (c) psychosis 
B.eCan you recognize roots? 






ROOT 
1.einternus 
2.epaidos (ped-)e
3.epedise
4. agogos 
5.edemos 
6. detmae

1. hypose
8. ophthalmose
9. oculuse
10. opsis, optikose
11.emetron 
12.eorthos 
13. odontos 
14.ekardiae
15.elogos 
16.eneurone
17. a/gose18.p汀chee

19. iatreia 
20.egeras 

MEANING EXAMPLE 
inte血ste
pediatrician 
pedestrian 
pedagogue 
demagogue 
dermatologist 
hypodermic 
ophthalmologist 
monocle 
optician 
optometrist 
orthopedist 
orthodontist 
cardiologist 
anthropologist 
neurologist 
neuralgia 
psychiatrist 
psychiatry 
geriatrics 

KEY: 1-inside, 2-child, 3-foot, 4-leading, 5-people, 6-skin, 7-under, 8-eye, 9-eye, 10-view, vision,.sight, 1 I-measure-ment, 12-straight, correct, 13-tooth, 14-heart, 15-science,estudy, 16-nerve, 17-pain, 18-mind, 19-medical healing, 

TEASER QUESTIONS FOR THE AMATEUR曰丫从OLOGIST 

1. Thinking of the roots odontos and paidos (spelled pt!d-ine
2. Recall the roots kardia and algos. What is the meaning ofe



4. N ostos is the Greek word for a return (home). Can you com-bine this root with algos, pain, to construct the English word

(Answers in C加ptere18) 

TWO KEYS TO SUCCESS: SELF-DISCIPLINE AND PERSISTENCE 
You can achieve a superior vocabulary in a phenomenally short time―given self-discipline and persistence. 
The greatest aid in building self-discipline is, as I have said, a matter of devising a practical and comfortable sch.dule for your-self and then keeping to that schedule. 


Make sure to complete at least one session each time you pick up the book, and always decide exactly when you will continue with your work before you put the book down. 

There may be periods of difficulty-thenJs the titne to 
exert the greatest self-discipline, the most determined persistence. 
For every page that you study will help you attain a mastery over words; every day that you work will add to your skill in un-derstanding and.using words. 



(End of Session 6) 






Brief Intermission Two 
RANDOM NOTES ON MODERN USAGE 


English grammar is confusing enough as it is―what makes it dou-bly confounding is that it is slowly but continually・changing. 

This means that some of the strict'rules you memorized so pain-fully in your high school or college English courses may no longer be completely valid. 
Following such outmoded principles, you may think you are speaking "perfect" English, and instead you may sound stuffy and pedantic. 
The problem boils down to this: If grammatical usage is gradu-ally becoming more liberal, where does educated, unaffected, in-formal speech end? And where does illiterate, ungrammatical speech begin? 
The following notes on current trends in modem usage are in-tended to help you come to a decision about certain controversial expressions. As you read each sentence, pay particular attention to the italicized word or words. Does the usage square with your own language patterns? Would you be willing to phrase your thought in just terms? Decide whether the sentence is right or wrong, then compare your conclusion with the opinion given in the explanatory paragraphs that follow the test. 





TEST YOURSELF 

1.eIf you drink too many vodka martinis,eyou will surely get sick.e
2.eHave you got a dollar?e
3.eNo one loves you except I.e
4.ePlease lay down.e
5.eWho do you love?e
6.eNeither of these cars are worth theemoney.e
7.eThe judge sentenced. the murderer to beehung.e
8.eMother, can I go out to play?e
9.eTake two spoonsful of this medicineeevery three hours.e
10.eYour words seem to infer that Jack is aeliar.e
11.eI will be happy to go to the concertewith you.e
12.eIt is me.e
13.eGoslow.e
14. Peggy and Karen. are alumni of theesame high _schoole
15.eI would like to ask you a question.e





RIGHT  WRONG  
RIGHT  WRONG  
RIGHT  WRONG  
RIGHT  WRONG  
RIGHT  WRONG  
RIGHT  WRONG  
RIGHT  WRONG  
RIGHT  WRONG  
RIGHT  WRONG  
RIGHT  WRONG  
RIGHT  WRONG  
RIGHT  WRONG  
RIGHT  WRONG  
RIGHT  WRONG  
RIGHT  WRONG  


1. If you drink too many vodka martinis, you will surely getesick. 

RIGHT. The puristic objection is that get has only one mean-ing―namely, obtain. However, as any modem dictionary will at-test, get has 
scores of different meanings, one of the most respecta-hie of which is become.. You can get tired, get di巧，getedrunk, or get sick-and your choice of words will o狂endeno one but a pedant. 





77 


2.eHave you got a dollar?e
RIGHT. If purists get a little pale at the sound of "get sick,''ethey turn chalk white when they hear have got as a substitute for 加ve.eBut the fact is that have got is an established American form of expression. Jacques Barzun, noted author叩deliterary critic, says: "Have you got is good idiomatic English一Ieuse it in speech without thinking about it and would write it if colloqui-alism seemed appropriate to the passage." 
3.eNo ones loves you except I.e
WRONG. In educated speech, me follows the preposition ex-cept. This problem is troublesome because, to the unsophisticated, the sentence sounds 
as if it can be completed to "No one loves you, except/ do," but current educated usage adheres to the tech-nical rule that a preposition requires an objective pronoun (me). 
4.Please切down.e

WRONG. Liberal as grammar has become, there is still noesanction for using lay with the meaning of recline. Lay means to place, as in "L叮yourehand on mine." Lie is the correct choice. 
5.eWho do you love?e
RIGHT. "The English I血guageeshows some disposition to geterid of whom altogether, and unqul'stionably it would be a better language with whom gone." So wrote Janet Rankin Aiken, of Co-lumbia University, way back in 1936. Today, many decades later, the "disposition" bas become a full-fledged force. 
The rules for who and whom are complicated, and few edu-cated speakers have the time, patience, or expertise to bother with them. Use the democratic who in your everyday speech whenever 
it sounds right. 
6.eNeither of these cars are worth the money.e
WRONG. The temptation to use are in this sentence is, I admit,epractically irresistible. However, "neither or'means "neither one or'and is, therefore, is the preferable verb. 
7.eThe judge sentenced the murderer to be hung.e
WRONG. A distinction is made, in educated speech, bet\\'.eenhung and hant必Aepicture is hung, but a person is hanged-th
社 is, if such action is intended to bring about an untimely.demise. 
8.eMother乒neI go out to play?e






RIGHT. If you insist that your child say may, and nothing but may; when asking for permission, you may be considered puristic. Can is not discourteous, incorrect, or vulgar-and the newest edi-tions of the authoritative dictionaries fully sanction the 
use of can in requesting rights, privileges, or permission. 
9. Take two spoo呵uleof this medicine every three hours.e
WRONG. There is a strange affection, on the part of some peo-pie, for spoonsful and cupsful, even though spoo心fuleand cupsful do not exist as acceptable words. The plurals are spoonfuls and cupfuls. 

I am taking for granted, of course, that you are using one spoon and filling it twice. If, for secret reasons of your own, you prefer to take your medicine in two separate spoons, you may then prop-erly speak of "two spoons full (not spoonsful) of medicine." 
10. Your words seem to infer that Jack is a liar.e

WRONG. Infer does not mean hint or suggest. Imply is theeproper word; to infer is to draw a conclusion from another's words. 
11.eI will be happy to go to the concert with you.e
RIGHT. In informal speech, you need no longer worry aboutethe technical and unrealistic distinctions between shall and will. The theory of modern grammarians is that shall-will differences were simply invented out of whole cloth by the textbook writers of the 1800s. As the editor of the scholarly Modern Language Forum at the University of California has stated, "The artificial distinction between shall and will to designate futurity is a super-stition that has neither a basis in historical grammar nor the sound sanction of universal usage." 
12. It is me. 
RIGHT. This "violation" of grammatical "law" has been com-pletely sanctioned by current usage. When the late Winston Churchill made a nationwide radio address from New Haven, Connecticut, many, many years ago, his opening sentence was: "This is me, Winston Churchill." I imagine that the purists who were listening fell into a deep state of shock at these words, but of i:purse Churchill was simply using the kind of down-to.earth Eng-Iish that had long since become standard in informal educated speech. 




79 




13.eGo slow.e
RIGHT.. "Go slow" is not, and never has been, incorrecteEnglish-every authority concedes that slow is an adverb as well as an adjective. Rex: Stout, well-known writer of mystery novels and creator of -Detective Nero Wolfe, remarked: "Not only do I use and approve of the idiom Go slow, but if I find myself with people who do not, I feave quick." 
14.ePeggy and Karen are alumni of the same high school.e

WRONG. As Peggy and Karen are obviously women, we callethem alumnae (a-LUM'-nee); only male graduates are alumni 


15.eI would like to ask you a question.eRIGHT. In current American usage, would may be used with I,ethough old-fashioned rules demand I should. 
Indeed, in modem speech, should is almost entirely restricted to expressing probability, duty, or responsibility. As in the case of the charitable-looking dowager who was 
approached by a seedy cha1J1cter seeking a handout. 
"Madam," he whined, "I haven't eaten in five days." 
"My good man," the matron answered with great concern, "you 

should force yourself!" 









5 



TEASER . is . straightens teeth? .. treats minor ailments of the feet? o deals with the problems of aging?ogrindsle心es?. analyzes handwriting? measures PREVIEW a ;tudent of human behavior? vision? 

What practitionl!r: 
o follows the techhiques devised by Sigmund Freud? 


. uses manipulation and massage as curative techniques? 


SESSION 7 


An ancient Greek mused about the meaning of life, and philoso-phy was born. The first Roman decided to build a road instead of cutting a path through the jungle, and engineering came into exist-ence. One day in primitive times, a human being lent to another whatever then passed for money and got back his original invest-ment plus a li.ttle more-－妞d.ebanking had star比d.e
Most people叩endepart of every workday at some gainful em-ployment, honest or otherwise, and in so doing often contribute their little mite to the progress of the world. 
We explore in this chapter the ideas behind people's occupa-tions--and the words that translate these ideas into verbal sym .. bols. 

IDEAS 

1. behaviore


By educati0n and training, this practitioner is an expert in theedark mysteries of human behavior-what 
makes peopl.e act as
― 
they do, why they have certain feelings, how their personalities were formed一ineshort, what makes them tick. Such a professional, is often employed by industries, schools, and institutions to devise' means for keeping workers productive and happy, 
students well-adjusted, and inmates contented. With a state license, this person may also do private or group therapy. 


A psychologist 

2. worries, fears, conflids 
This practitioner is. a physician, psychiatrist, or psychologist who has been specially trained in the techniques devised by Sig-


mund Freud, encouraging you to delve into that part of your mind called "the unconscious." By reviewing the experiences, traumas, feelings, and thoughts of your earlier years, you come to a better understanding of your present worries, fears, conflicts; repres-sions, insecurities, and nervous tensions-thus taking the first step in coping with them. Treatment, consisting largely in listening to, and helping you to. interpret the meaning of, your free-fl.owing ideas, is usually given "in frequent sessions that may well go on for a year or more. 

A psychoanalyst 
This practitioner is a dentist who bas taken postgraduate workein the straightening of teeth. 

An orthodontist 
4.eeyese
This practitioner measures your vision and prescribes the typeeof glasses that will give you a new and more accurate view of the world. 
An optometrist 
5.eglassese
This practitioner grinds lenses according to the specificationseprescribed by your optometrist or ophthalmologist,. and may also deal in other kinds of optical goods. 
An optician 
6.ebones and blood vesselse
This {>ractitioner is a member of the profession that originatedein 1874, when Andrew T. Still devised a drugless technique of curing diseases by massage and other manipulative procedures, a technique based on the theory that illness may be caused by the undue pressure of displaced bones on nerves and blood vessels. 














Training is equal to that of physicians, and in most states these practitioners may also use the same methods as, and have the full rights and privileges of, medical doctors. 

An osteopath 
7.ejoints and articulations、-

The basic principle of this practitioner's work is the main\ nance of the structural and functional integrity of the nervous sys-tern. Treatment consists of manipulating most of the articulations of the body, especially those connected to the spinal column. Li-censed and legally recognized in forty-tive states, this professional has pursued academic studies and training that parallel those of the major healing professions. 

A chiropractor 
8.efeete

This practitioner treats minor foot ailments--coms, calluses,b的ions,efallen arches, etc., and may perform minor surgery. 
A podiatrist 

9.ewritinge
This practitioner analyzes handwriting to determine character,epersonality, or aptitudes, and is often called upon to verify the au-thenticity of signatures, written documents, etc. 
A graphologist 




A gerontologist 



USING THE WORDS 

Can you pronounce the words? 
1. psychologists
2. psychoanalysts
3.sorthodontists

awr-th;-DON'-tist 

4. optometrists
5.soptician 
op-TOM勺－trist

6.sosteopath 0S'-tee－今paths
7. chiropractorsKi'-r;-prQk'-t忒
8. podiatrists
9. graphologist 
10.sgerontologists


Can you work with the words? 
PRACTITIONERS 

1.spsychologists
2.spsychoanalysts
3.sorthodontists
4.soptometrists

jair'-;n-TOL'-;-jist 
INTERESTS 
a.sv1s1ons
b.s"the unconscious 
＂ 
c. bones and blood vesselss
d. lenses and opticaUnstrumentss



5. opticians
6.sosteopath 
f.steeths
7.schiropractorsg. problems of agings
8.spodiatrist h. joints of tl1e spines
9.sgraphologist i. 
handw巾ings

10.sgerontologistsj.sbehaviors
KE!Y: 1-j, 2--cb, 3-f, 4-a, 5-d, 6-c,7-h,8--e，9-i, 10-g 
Do you understand the words? 

1.sA psychologist must also be a TRUB ・ physician.s
2.eA psychoanalyst follows FreudianeTRUE FALSE techniques.e
3.eAn orthodontist specializes ineTRUE FALSE straightening teeth.e
4.eAn optometrist presences and fitseTRUE FALSE glasses.e










5.eAn optician may prescri"be glasses-.eTRUE FALSE 
6.eAn osteopath may use massage andeTRUE FALSE other ma_nipulative techniques.e
7.eA chiropractor has a medical degree.eTRUB FALSE 
8.eA podiatrist may perform majoreTRU'B FALSB surgery.e
9.eA graphologist analyzes character fromeTRUE FALSE handwriting. 




JO. A gerontologist i. interested in the TRUE FALSE non-medical problems of adolescence. 
KEY: 1-F, 2-T, 3-T, 4-T, 5-F, 6-T, 7-F, 8-F, 9-T, 10-F 

Can you recall the叩rds?e
1.e・ delves into the unconsciouse1.eP.e
2.euses either massage ande2.e0.emanipulation or other standardemedical procedures to treateillnesse


3 . takes care of minor ailments of 3.ePe
the feet 4.estraightens teethe4.e0.e
5.eanalyzes handwritinge5.eG.e
6.egrinds lenses and sells opticale6.e0.egoodse
7. deals with the non-medical 7.eG.eproblems of aging 
・e8.

8. manipulates articulations connected to the spinal column 






KEY: 1-psychoanalyst, 2-osteopath, 3-podiatrist, 4-orthodontist, 5-graphologist, 6-optician, 7-gerontologist, 8-chiroprac-

SESSION 8 


ORIGINS AND RELATED WORDS 

1.ethe mental life


P汀chologisteis upon the as psychi-atrist一psyche,spirit, sobuilt ul, or mind. In same p汀chiaGreek trist,troot he combin-ing form is iatreia, medical healing. In psychologist, the combin-ing form is logos, science or study; a psychologist, by etymology, is one who studies the mind. The field is psychology (si-KOL'七jee),ethe adjective psycho-logical (si勺c:i-LOJ'-a-kal).e
Psyche (SI'-kee) is also an English word in its own right―it designates the mental life, the spiritual or non-physical aspect of one's existence. The adjective psychic (SI'-kik) refers to phe-nomena or qualities that cannot be explained in purely physical terms. People ・ may be 
called psychic if they seem to possess a sixth sense, a -special gift of mind reading, or any mysterious aptitudes that cannot be accounted for logically. A person's画-turbance is psychic if it is emot.ional or mental, rather than physi-cal. 






Psyche combines with the Greek pathos, suffering or disease, to form psychopathic (si-ka-PATH'-ik), an adjective that describes someone suffering from a severe mental or emotional disorder. The noun is psychopathy (si'-KOP'今thee).*e
The root psyche combines with Greek soma, body, to form psy-chosomatic (si'-ko一S今MAT'-ik),ean adjective that delineates the powerful influence that the mind, especially the unconscious, has on bodily diseases. Thus, a person who fears the consequence of being present at a certain meeting will suddenly develop a bad cold or backache, or even be injured in a traffic accident, so that his appearance at this meeting is made impossible. It's a real cold, it's far from ari imaginary backache, and of course one cannot in any sense doubt the reality of the automobile that injured him. Yet, according to the psychosomatic theory of medicine, his un-conscious made him susceptible to the cold germs, caused the backache, or forced him into the path of the car. 

A psychosomatic disorder actually exists insofar as symptoms are concerned (headache, excessive urination, pains, paralysis, heart palpitations), yet there is no organic cause within the body. The cause is within the psyche, the mind. Dr. Flanders Dunbar, in Mind and Body, gives a clear and exciting account of the in-terrelationship between emotions and diseases. 
Psychoanalysis (si'-ko今NAL'－今sis)erelies on the technique of deeply, exhaustively probing-into the unconscious, a technique de-veloped by Sigmund Freud. In oversimplified terms, the general principle of psychoanalysis is to guide the patient to an awareness of the deep-seated, unconscious causes of anxieties, fears, conflicts, and tension. Once fo皿d,eexposed to the light of day, and thoroughly understood, claim the psychoanalysts, these causes may vanish like a light snow that is exposed to strong sunlighte
_Consider an example: You have asthma, let us say, and your 

.ePsychopathy is usually charac比rizedeby antisocial and extremely ego-心ntricebehavior. A psychopath {SI仁ko-path'),esometimes called a psycho-patlilc personality, appears to be lacking an inner moral censor, and of血ecommits criminal acts, without anxiety or guilt, in order to obtain im-m础ateegratification of desires. Such a person may be utterly Jacking in sexual restraint, or addicted to hard dru区Someepsychologists prefer the label sociopath {SO'-she妇'-path'oreSO'-see-11-path') for this type of per-sonality to indicate the absence of a social conscien也



88 

doctor can find no physical basis for your ailment. So you are re-ferred to a psychoanalyst (or psychiatrist or clinical psychologist who practices psychoanalytically oriented therapy). 
With your therapist you explore your past life, dig into your un-conscious, and discover, let us say for th. sake of argument, that your mother or father always used to set for you impossibly high goals. No matter what you accomplished in school, it was 
not good enough一inoyour mother.s or father's opinion (and such opinions 
were always made painfully clear to you), you could do better if you were not so lazy. As a child you built up certain re-sentments and anxieties because you seemed unable to please your parent―and (this will sound farfetched, but it is perfectly possi-ble) as a result you became asthmatic. How else were you going to get the parental love, the approbation, the attention you needed and that you felt you were not receiving? 

In your sessions with your therapist, you discover that your asthma is emotionally, rather than organically, based―your ail-ment is psychogenic (si'-ko-JEN'-ik), of psychic origin, or (the terms are used more or Jess interchangeably although they differ somewhat in definition) psychosomatic, resulting from the interac-tion of mind and body. (Psychogenic is built on psyche plus Greek genesis, birth or origin.) 
And your treatment? No drugs, no surgery一theseomay help the body, not the emotions. Instead, you "work out" (this is the term used in psyc加analytico[si-ko-an'今LIT'-ik]oparlance) early trauma in talk, in remembering, in exploring, in inte叩reting,oin reliving childhood experiences. And if your asthma is indeed psychogenic (or psychosomatic), therapy will very likely help you; your attacks may cease, either gradually or suddenly. 
Freudian therapy is less popular today than formerly; many newer therapies-Gestalt, bioenergetics, transactional analysis, 
to name only a few-claim to produce quicker results. 
In any case, psychotherapy (si-ko-THAIR＇一a-pee)_oof one sort or another is the indicated treatment for psychogenic (or psycho-somatic) disorders, or for any personality disturbances. The prac-titioner is a psychotherapist (si-ko-THAIR'-a-pist) or therapist, for short; the adjective is psychotherapeutic (si-ko-thair'-a.. PYOO＇一tik).






REVIEW OF ETY'.从OLOGY-
ROOT, SUFFIX MEANING ENGLISH WORD 
l.-psyche-spirit, soul, mind 
2.-iatreia-medical healing 
3.--ic-adjective suffix 
4.-soma-body 
5.-genesis,-birth, origin 
6.-pathos-iSuffering, disease 








USING THE WO.RDS 

Can you pronounce the words? 
1.-psychologysI-KOL'仑jee-
2.-psychologicalsI'-k今LOJ'一a-kal-

3.-psyche-Sl'-kee 
4.-psychic-SI'-kik 
5.-psychopathicsi-k今PATH'-ik-
6.-psychopathy-si-KOP'-a-thee 
7.-psychopathSI'-k仑path-
8.-psychosomaticsi'-ko一S今MAT'-ik-
9.-psychoanalysissI'-ko-a-NAL'仑sis-
10.-psychoanalytic岱Kean＇-a-LIT'-ik-
11.-psychogenic-si-ko-JEN'-ik 
12.-psychotherap
y迁ko-THAIR＇一今pee-
13.-psychotherapist-sI-ko-THAIR'-a-pist 
14.-psychotherapeutic-si-ko-thair'-a-PYdb'-tik 




Can you work with the words? 
1.-psychology-

ance-





2. psyche b.epsycho1ogical treatmentebased on Freudian techn.iquese
3.epsychic c. general term for psycho-logical treatmente
4.epsychopathy d.eoriginating in the mind oreemotionse
5. psychosomatic e. one's inner or mental 1ife, oreself-image 
6.epsychQanalysisef. study of the human mind and behavior 
7. psychogeniceg. describing the interaction ofemind and bodye
8. psychotherapyeh.epertaining to the mind; ex-trasensory 
9. psychopathei. person Jacking in social con-




KEY: 1-f, 2-e,3-h,4-a,5-g,6-b, 7-d，8--c,9-i 


1.ePsychological treatment aims ateTRUE 
FALSE sharpening the intellect.e
2.ePsychic phenomena can be explainedeTRUE FALSE on rational or physical grounds 
3.ePsychopathic persona1ities are normaleTRUE FALSE and healthy. 
4.eA psychosQmatic symptom is caused byeTRUE FALSE organic disease. 
5. Every therapist uses psychoanalysis.eTRUB FALSE 
6.eA psychogenic illness originates in theeTRUB FALSE mind or emotions.e
7.e
a medicaleTRUE FALSE degree. 



91 


8. Psychoanalytically orientedtherapy  TRUE  FALSE  
usesFreudiantechniques.  
9. Apsychopathisoftenacriminal.  TRUE  FALSE  


Canyou recallthewords? 
1. one'sinnerormentallife, or 1. P. self-image 
2. theadjectivethatdenotesthe 2. P interactions, especially in illness,betweenmindandbody 
3. mentallyoremotionally 3. P. disturbed 
4. studyofbehavior 4. P.
尸＿ 

5. extrasensory -5. P. 

6.treatmentby Freudian 6.P. techniques 
7. pertainingtothestudyof 7. P behavior (adj.) 
8.. ofmentaloremotional origin 8. P 
9. generaltermfortreatmentof 9. P. emotional disorders 



10. P. 
KEY: I-psyche, 2-psychosomatic,. 3-psychopathic, 4-psycbol-ogy, 5-psychic, 6-psychoanalysis, 7-psychologic吐8-psy-chogenic, 9-psychotherapy, 10-psychopath 





SESSION 9 

ORIGINS AND RELATED WORDS 

1. the whole toothe
Orthodontist, we discovered in Chapter 4, is built oneorthos, straight, coras rect, plus odontos, tooth. A pedodontist (pee'-do-DON'-tist) specializes in the care of 
children's teeth-the title is constructed from paidos, child, plus odontos. The specialty: pedodontia (pee'-do-DON'-sha); the ad-jective: pedodontic (pee'-d6-DON'一tik).e
A periodontist (pair'-e心－DON'-tist)eis a gum specialist--=-the term combines odontos with the prefix peri-, around, surrounding. (As a q让ckeglance in the mirror will tell you, the gums surround the teeth, more or less.) 
Can you figure out the word for ・ the specialty? 
For the adjective? 
An endodontist (en'-do-DON'-tist) specializes in work on the pulp of the tooth and in root-canal therapy-the prefix in this term is endo-, from.Greek endon, inner, within. 
Try your. hand again -at.constructing words. What is the specialty?・eAnd the adjective? 
The prefix ex-, out, combines with odontos to form exodontist (eks'七DON'-tist).eWhat do you suppose, therefore, is the work 
For the adjective? 



2.emeasuremente
The optometrist, by etymology, measures vision-the term isebuilt on opsis, optikos, view, vision, plus metron, measurement. 
Metron is the root in many other words: 
1.ethermometer (thgr-MOM吁r)―aneinstrument to meas-ure heat (Greek therme, heat). 
2.
barometer（切ROM'七ter)-aneinstrument to measureeatmospheric pressure (Greek baros, weight); the adjective is bar-ometric (bair'-:i-MET'-rik). 

3.esphygmomanometer (sfi护吵m今NOM'吁r)一aedeviceefor measuring blood pressure (Greek sphygmos, pulse). 

4.emetric system-a decimal system of weights and measures,elong used in other countries and now gradually being adopted in the United States. 
3.ebones, feet, and handse
Osteopath combines Greek osteon, bone, with pathos, suffering,edisease. Osteopathy (os'一tee-OP'-:以bee),eyou will recall, was originalIY. based on the theory that disease is caused by pressure of the bones on blood vessels and nerves. An osteopathic (os'-tee勺 PATH'-ik) physician is not a bone specialist, despite the mislead-ing etymology-and should not be confused with the orthopedist, who is. 


The podiatrist (Greek pous, 11odds, foot, plus iatreia, medical healing) practices podiatry (pa-DI'-今tree).eThe adjective is po-diatric（po'-dee-AT'-rik). 

The root pous, podos is found also in: 
1.eoctopus (OK'－氐pas),ethe eight-armed (or, as the etymol-ogy has it, eight-footed) sea.creature (Greek okto, eight). 
2.eplatypus (PLAT宅pas),ethe strange water mammal with aeduck's bill, webbed feet, and a beaver-like tail that reproduces by laying eggs (Greek platys, broad; flat一hence,eby etymology, a flatfoot!). 
3.epodium (PO'-dee..:am), a speaker's platform, etymologicallyea place for the feet. (The suffix -ium often ・signifies "place where," as in gym匹ium,estadium.“成tor让m,eetc.) 









4. tripod (TRI'-pod), a three-legged (or "footed") stand for a camera or other device (tri一，three).e
5. chiropodist (ka-ROP'丑ist),eearlier title for a podiatrist, and still often used. The specialty is chiropody (ka-ROP'一a-dee).e

Chiropody combines.podos with Greek cheir, hand, spelled chiro-in English words. The term was coined in the・ days before labor-saving machinery and push-button devices, when people worked with their hands and developed calluses on their upper ex-tremities as well as on their feet. Today most of us earn a liveli-hood in more sedentary occupations, and so we may develop cal\uses on less visible portions of our anatomy. 
Chiropractors heal with their hands―the specialty is chiro-practic (ki'-ro-PRAK'-tik). Cheir (chiro一），hand,eis the root in chirography (lei-ROG'-r:i-

these days of electronic word-processing),t would be a chirog-
rapher（迂ROG'-ra-far);ethe adjective is chirograp加(kI'-ro-
GRAF'-ik). 
If the suffix -mancy comes from a Greek word meaning fore-telling or prediction, can you decide what chiromancy (KI'-ro-man'-see) must be? 
REVIEW OF ETY从OLOGYe
PREFIX, ROOT, SUFFIX MEANING ENGLISH WORD 
1.eorthosestraight, correct 
2. odontosetooth 




child 

adjective suffix 
5.eperi-around, surrounding 

6. endo-t But see calligrapher in the next session. 
7.oex-out ．．
8.oapsis, optikos v1s1on 
9.ometron measurement 
10.othenne 
heat 
11. baros weight 
12. sphygmos pulse 
13.oosteon 
bone 
14.opathos suffering, disease 
15.
po匹，podosofoot 

16. okto 
eight 

95 



11.oplatysobroad, flat 
18.o-iumo
place where 
19. tri-three 
20.ocheir (chiro曰）o
hand 
21. man守oprediction 
22.oiatreiaomedical healing 



USING THE WORDS 


Can you pronounce the words? (I) 

1.opedodontistopee'-do-DON'-tist 
2.opedodontiapee'壶DON'-shao
3.opedodonticopee'-do-DON'-tik 
4.operiodontisto
pair'-ee-o-DON'一tisto
5. periodontiaopair'-ee-o-DON'-sha 
6. periodonticopair'-ee-o-DON'-tik 
7. endodontistoen'-do-DON'一tisto
8.oendodontiaoen'-do-DON'-sha 
9. endodonlicoen'-do-DON'-tik 10. exodo11tisteks屯DON'-tisto



11. exodontia
eks屯DON'-shao
12.oexodonticoeks仁o-DON'-tiko
13.othermometer
加r-MOM'七氐o
14. barometerob:i-ROM'一a-taro
15. barometricobair'今MET'-riko
16.osphygmomanometerosfig'-mo-ma-NOM'吁ro


-96 






Can you pronounce the words? 1111 
1. osteopathy 
2. osteopathico
3. podiatryo
4. podiatrico
5.ooctopuso
6. platypuso
7. podiumo
8. tripod 
9. chiropodist 
10.ochiropody 
11.ochiropractic 





os'-tee-OP'-a-thee os'-tee-a-P ATH'-ik pa-DI'-a-tree 沁'-dee-AT'-rikOK'－氐pasoPLAT'-a-pas P6'-dee-am TRI'-pod 
ka-ROP'-a-dist ka-ROP'-a-dee ki'-ro-PRAK'-tik 

13. chirographero

ki-ROG'-ra-fee kI-ROG'-r今faro
14.ochirographico
15.ochiromancyo
16.ochiromancero
17.ochiromantico
Can you work with the words? Ill 
1.oorthodontiao
2.opedodontiao
3.operi

4. endodontiao
5.oexodontiao
6. barometero

7.. sphygmomanometer 
8.oosteopathyo
9.opodiatryo



ki'-r.-GRAF-ik KI'-ra-man'-see KI'-ra-man'-sar ki'-ra--MAN'-tik 
a.odental specialty involving theopulp and root canalo
b. in.strument that measures at-mospheric pressureo
c.ospecialty arising from theotheory that pressure. of the bones on nerves and blood 


vessels may cause diseaseo
d. specialty of child dentistryo
e. blood-pressure apparatuso
f.o
treatment of minor ailmentsoof the foot 
g. instrument to 
measure heat 
h.ospecialty of tooth extractiono

i.ospecialty of tooth straight-erungo




97 

KEY: l-i, 2-d, 3才，4-a,5-h,6-b,a7-e, 8-c,9-f, 10-g 
） 
Can you work with the words? Ill) 
1.aoctopusaa.aspeaker's platforma
2. platypusab.amaintenance of integrity ofathe nervous system by ma-nipulation and massagea
3. podiumac. palm readinga
4. chiropodyad. eight-armed sea creaturea
5. chiropracticae.ahandwritinga
6. chirographyaf.atreatment of minor ailmentsaof the foota
7.achiromancyag. egg-laying mammal ・・ withawebbed feeta

KEY: 1-d,2-g, 3-a, 4-f, 5-b, 6-e, 7-c 

Do you understand the words? 
1.aOrthodontia is a branch of dentistry. TRUE FALSE 
2. Doctors use sphygmomanometers toaTRUE FALSE check blood pressure.a
3. Osteopathic physicians may use TRUE FALSE standard medical procedures.a
4. Chiropractic deals with handwriting. TRUE FALSE 
5. Chiropody and podiatry area
TRUE FALSE synonymous terms.a
6.aA podium is a place from which aaTRUE 


lecture might be delivered. 7.. A pedodont泣isaa foot doctor. 
TRUE 
FALSE 
8. A perio心ntistais a gum・specialist.aTRUE FALSE 
9.aA endodontist does root-canal therapy. TRUE 
FALSE 
10.aAn exodontist extracts teeth.aTRUE FALSE 
11.e
A barometer measures heat.eTRUE FALSE 

s

12.e
An octopuehas eight arms. TRUE FALSE 

13.eA platypus is a land mammal.e
TRUE FALSE 
14.eA tripod has four legs.e
TRUE FALSE 
15.e
A chirographer is an expert ateTRUE FALSE penmanship.e

16.e
A chiromancer reads palms.eTRUE FALSE 







1.e
pertaining to child dentistrye(adj.)

2.e
pertaining to treatment of theefoot (adj.)e

3.e
blood-pressure apparatuse

4.e
three-legged stande

5.e
pert:aining to the treatment ofediseases by manipulation toerelieve pressure of the bones onenerves and blood vessels (adj.)e

6.e
pertaining to handwritinge(adj.)e

7.e
gum specialiste

8.e
treatment of ailments of theefoote

9.e
stand for a speakere

10.e
dentist specializing in treatingethe. pulp of the tooth or ine
doing root-canal therapye


KEY: 1-pcdodontic, 2-podiatric, 3-sphygmomanometer, 4,.:-tri-pod, 5-osteopathic, 6-chirographic, 7-periodontist, 8-po-






Can you 
recall the words? (11) 
1. pertaining to the specialty of 1. tooth extraction (adj.)a
2. pertaining to the measurementa2.aB.aof atmospheric pressure (adj.)a
3.apalm reading (noun)a3. 4. handwritinga4. 


5.. ththe practice 
of manipulatingabodily articulations to relieve ailments 

KEY: 1-exodontic, 2-baromctric, 3-chiromancy, 4-chirography, 5-chiropractic, 6-platypus, 7-0ctopus, 8-thermometer 

(End of Session 9) 

SESSION 10 

ORIGINS AND RELATED WORDS 
1. writing and writers 

The Greek verb graphein, to write, is the source of a・ great many English words. 
We know that the gravhologist analyzes handwriting, the term combining graphein with logos, science, study. The specialty is graphology (gr吁OL'-:;i-jee),athe adjective・ graphological (graf'－今LOJ'心－bl).a
Chirographer is built on graphein plus cheir (chiro-), hand. 



IDEAS 

1. you don't fool even some of the peopleo
Everybody knows your propensity for avoiding facts. You haveobuilt so solid and unsavory a reputation that only a stranger 
is likely to be misled-and then, not for long. 
A notorious liar 
＼ 
2. 
to the.highest summits of artistryo
YoUJi'ability is top-drawer-rarely does anyone lie as convinc-ingly or as artistically as you do. Your skill has, in short, reached the zenith of perfection. Indeed, your mastery of the art is so great that your lying is almost always crowned with success-and you have no trouble seducing an unw叩listenerointo believing 
that you are telling gospel truth. 

A consummate liar 
3. beyond redemption or salvation 

You are impervious to correction. Often as you may be caught in your fabrications, there is no reforming you一youogo right on ly-
ing despite. the punishment, embarrassment, or unhappiness that your distortions of truth may bring upon you. 

An inco汀igibleoliar 

4. too old to learn new trickso

You are the victim of firmly fixed and deep-rooted habits. Tell-ing untruths is as frequent and customary an activity as brushing your teeth in the morning, or having toast and coffee for break-fast, or lighting up a cigarette after dinner (if you are a smoker). And almost as re且exive.o

An inveterate liar 




SESSION 14 

It was the famous Greek philosopher and cynic Diogenes'who went around the streets of Athens, lantern in hand, looking for an honest person. 
This was over two thousand years ago, but I presume that Diogenes would have as little success in his searcq today. Lying seems to be an integral weakness of mortal character一Iodoubt that few human beings would be so brash as to claim that they have never in their lives told at least a partial untruth. Indeed, one philologist goes so far as to theorize that language must have been invented for the sole purpose of deception. Perhaps so. It is cer-tainly true that animals seem somewhat more honest than humans, maybe because they are less gifted mentally. 
Why do people lie? To increase their sense of importance, to es-cape punishment, to gain an end that的uldootherwise be denied them, out of long-standing habit, or sometimes because they actu-ally do not know the differepce between fact and fancy. These are the common reasons for falsification. No doubt there are other, fairly unique, motives that impel people to distort the truth. And, to come right down to it, can we always be certain what is true and what is false? 
If lying is a prevalent and all-too-human phenomenon, there would of course be a number of interesting words to describe di丘erentotypes of liars. 

Let us pretend (not to get personal, but only to help you be-come personally involved in the ideas and words) that you are a liar. 

The question is, what kind of liar are you? 

149 


HOW TO TALK ABOUT LIARS AND LYING 

TEASER PREVIEW 
What kind of liar are you if 


o 
have developed a reputation for falsehood? 

o 
are particularly skillful? 

o 
cannot be reformed? 

o 
have become habituated to your vice? 

o 
started to lie-from the moment of your birth? 



. always lie? 
o 
cannot distinguish fact from fancy? 

o 
sufler no pangs of conscience? 

o 
are suspiciously smooth and fluent in your lying? 

o 
tell vicious lies? 





6. Are you going to invite Doris and I to your party? 
WR.ONO. Some people are almost irresistibly drawn to the pro-noun I in constructions like this one. However, not only does such use of I violate a valid and useful grammatical principle, but, more important, it is rarely heard in educated speech. The mean-ing of the sentence is equally clear no matter which form of the pronoun is employed, of course, but the use of 1, the less popular choice, may stigmatize the speaker as uneducated. 
Consider it this way: You would normally say, "Are you going to invite me to your party?" It would be wiser, therefore, to say, 


opinions were unanimous; not a single dissenting voice, out of the twenty-three authors who answere., was raised against the usage. 
0.i1e＂writer responded: "It has been right for about 150 years 

Editors of magazines and newspapers questioned on the same point were just a shade more conservative. Sixty out of sixty-nine accepted the usage. One editor commented: "I think we do not have to be nice about nice any longer. No one can eradicate it from popular speech as a synonym for pleasant, or enjoyable, or kind, or courteous. It is a workhorse of the vocabulary, and prop-erly so." 

The only valid objection to the word is that it is overworked by some people, but this shows a weakness in vocabulary rather than mgrammar. 

压inethe famous story of the editor who said to her secretary: "There are two words I wish you would stop using so much. One is'nice'and the other is'lousy.'" 
"Okay," said the secretary, who was eager to please. "What are they?" 

4. He's pretty sick today.e
RIGHT. One of the purist's pet targets of attack is the wordepretty as used in the sentence under discussion. Yet all modern dictionaries accept such use of pretty, and a survey made by a professor at the University of Wisconsin showed that the usage is established English. 

5. I feel awfully sick. RIGHT. Dictionaries accept this usage in informal speech and 
the University of Wisconsin survey showed that it is established English. 
The great popularity of awfully in educated speech is no doubt due to the strong and unique emphasis that the word gives to an adjectiveesubstitute very, quite, extremely, or severely-and you
― 
considerably weaken the force. 
On the other hand, it is somewhat less than cultivated to say "I feel awful sick," and the wisdom of using awfully to intensify a pleasant concept ("What an awfully pretty child"; "That book.is awfully interesting") is perhaps still debatable, though getting less and less 
so as the years go on. 




usage without qualification. Of twelve dictionary editors, eleven accepted further, and in the case of the authors, thirteen out of twenty-three accepted the word as used. A professor of English at Cornell University 
remarked: "I know of no justification for any present-day distinctj.on between.further and farther''; and a con-suiting editor of the Funk and Wagnalls dictionary said, "There is nothing controversial here. As applied to spatial distance, further and farther have long been interchangeable." 

Perhaps the comment of a noted author and columnist is most to the point: "I like both further and farther, as I have never been able to tell which is which or why one is any farther or further than the other." 
2.eSome people adniit that their principle goal in life is to becomeewealthy.eWRONG. In speech, you can get principal and principle con-fused as often as you like, and will know the difference-both words are pronouncno ed idone entically. ever In writing, however, your spelling will give you away. 
There is a simple memory trick that will help you if you get into trouble with these two words. Rule and principle both end in 
tains an a, and so does main―and principal means main. Getethese points straight and your confusion is over.Heads of schools are called principals, because they are the 
main person in that institution of learning. The money you have in the bank is your principal, your main financial assets. And the stars of a play are principals一theemain actors. 
Thus, "Som. people admit that their principal (main) goal in_ life is to become wealthy," but "Such a principle (rule) is not guaranteed to lead to happiness." 
-le-and a principle is a rule. On the other hand, principal con-
3.eWhat a nice thing to say!e
RIGHT. Purists object to the popular use of五ceeas a synonym for pleasant, agreeable, or delightful. They wish to restrict the word to its older and more erudite meaning of exact or subtle. You will be happy to hear that they aren't getting anywhere. 
When I polled a group of well-known authors on the accept-ability in everyday speech of the popular meaning of nice, their 


145 


rules, but only because they are rarely if. ever used by educated speakers. 
Correctness, in short, is determined by current educated usage. 

The following notes on current trends in modern usage are in-tended to help you come to a decision about certain controversial expressions. As you read each sentence, pay particular attention to the italicized word or words. Does the usage square with your own language patterns? Would you be willing to phrase your thoughts in just such terms? Decide whether the sentence is "right" or "wrong," then compare your conclusions with the opin-


TEST YOURSELF 
l.eLet's not walk any further right now.eRIGHT WRONG 
2.e
Some people admit that their principleeRIGHT WRONG goal in life is to become wealthy.e

3.eWhat a nice thing to say!e
RIGHT WRONG 
4.e
He's pretty sick today.eRIGHT WRONG 

5.e
I feel awfully sick.eRIGHT WRONG 

6. 
Are you going to invite Doris and I toeRIGHT WRONG your party?e




1.eLet's not walk any further right now.e

RIGHT. In the nineteenth century, when professional grammari-aris attempted to Latinize English grammar, an artificial distinc-tion was drawn between farther and further, to wit: farther refers to space, further means to a greater extent or additional. Today, as a result, many teachers who are still under the forbidding in-fluence of nineteenth-century restrictions insist that it is incorrect to use one word for the other. 
To check on current attitudes toward this distinction, I sent the test sentence above to a number of dictionary editors, authors, and professors of .nglish, requesting their opinion of the accepta-bility of further in reference to actual distance. Sixty out of eighty-





Brief Intermission Four-

HOW TO A VOID BEING A PURIST 


Life, as you no doubt realize; is complicated enough these days. Yet puristic textbooks and English teachers with puristic ideas are striving to make it still more・ complicated. Their contribution to the complexity of modern living is the repeated claim that many of the natural, carefree, and popular expressions that most of us use every day are "bad English," "incorrect grammar,"''wlgar," or "illiterate." 
In truth, many of the former restrictions and "thou shalt nots" of academic grammar are now outmoded―most educated speak-ers quite simply ignore them. 

Students in my grammar classes at Rio Hondo College are somewhat nonplused when they discover that correctness is not determined by textbook rules and cannot be enforced by school-teacher edict. They invariably ask: "Aren't you going to draw the line somewhere?" 
It is neither necessary nor possible for any one person to "draw the line." That is done--and quite effectively―by the people themselves, by the millions of educated people throughout the na-tion. 
Of course certain expressions may be considered "incorrect" or "illiterate" or "bad grammar''-not because they violate puristic 

. 




I suggest, first, half a dozen.older books (older, but still im-JDensely valuable and completely valid) available at any large public library. The Human Mind, by Karl A. Menninger Mind an4 Body, by Flanders Dunbar The Mind切Actione,eby Eric Berne Understandable Psychiatry, by Leland E. Hinsie A General Introduction to Psychoanalysis, by Sigmund Freud Emotional Problems of Living, by 0. Spurgeon English and Gerald H.J. Pearson 



Next, I suggest books on some of the newer approaches in psy-chology. These are available in inexpensive paperback editions as well.as at your local library. 

I Ain't Well-But I Sure Am Better, by Jess Lair, Ph.D气 
The Disowned Self, by Nathaniel Brandon 
A Primer of Behavioral Psychology, by Adelaide Bry 
I'm OK―You're 
OK, by Thomas A. Harris, M.D. 

Freedom to Be and Man the Manipulator, by Everett L. Shos-
trum 
Games People Pl叮，byeEric Berne, M.D. 
Love and Orgasm, Pleasure and The Language of the Body, by 
Alexander Lowen, M.D. 
The Transparent Self, by Sydney M. Jourard 
Don't Say Yes When You Want to Say No, by Herbert Fen-
sterheim and Jean Baer 
Gestalt Therapy Verbatim, by Frederick S. Perts 
Born to Win, by Muriel James and Dorothy Jongeward 
Joy and Here Comes Everybody, by William C. Schutz 
The Fifty-Minute Hour, by Robert Lindner 
(End of Session 13) 






had an idea--and had to coin a whole new vocabulary to make his idea clear to the world. Those who are familiar with Freud's theories know all the words that explain them一theeunconscious, the ego, the id, the superego, rational切tion,eOedipus complex, and so on. Splitting the atom was once a new idea-anyone famil-iar with it knew something about fission, isotope, radioactive, cyclotron, etc. 
Remember this: your vocabulary indicates the alertness and range・of your m血．Theewords you know show the extent of your understanding of what's going on in the world. The size of your vocabulary varies directly with the degree to which you are grow-ing intellectually. 
You have covered so far in this book several hundred words. Having learned these words, you have begun to think of an equal number of new ideas. A new word is not just another pattern of 
syllables with which to clutter up your mind一aenew word is a new idea to help you think, to help you understand the thoughts of others, to help you expre. your own thoughts, to help you live a richer intellectual life. Realizing these facts, you may become impatient. You will begin to doubt that a book like this can cover all 
the ideas that an alert and intellectually mature adult wishes to be acquainted with. Your doubt is well-founded. One of the chief purposes of this book is to get you started, to give you enough of a push so that you will begin to gather momentum, to stimtilate you enough so that you will want to start gathering your own ideas. Where can you gather them? From good books on new topics. How can you gather them? By reading on a wide range of new subjects. Reference has repeatedly been made to psychology, psychiatry, and psychoanalysis in these pages. If your curiosity has been piqued by these references, here is a good place to start. In these fields there is a tremendous and exciting literature-and you can read as widely and as deeply as you wish. 


What I would like to do is offer a few suggestions as to where you might profitably begin一howefar you go will depend on your own interest. 





141 


4. These three words, based on lingua, tongue, use prefixes we have discussed. Can you define each one? 
(b) 
bilingual 

(C) 
trilingual Can you, now, guess at the meaning of multilingual? 


How about linguist? 
What do you suppose the Latin root multus means? 
. (Think of multitude.) 
h
5. Wit Anglophile as your model, can you figure out what country.and its people, customs, etc. each of the following admires? 
(a) 
Francophile 

(b) 
Russophile 

(c) 
Hispanophile 

(d) 
Germanophile 

(e) 
Nipponophile 


(f) 
Sinophile 


6. Using roots you have learned, and with bibliophile as your model, can you construct 
a word for: 
(a) 
one who loves males: 

(b) 
one who loves women: 

(c) 
one who loves children: 

(d) 
one who loves animals: 

(e) 
one who loves plants: 




(Answers in Chapter 18) 

WHERE TO GET NEW IDEAS 

People with superior vocabularies, I have submitted, are the people with ideas. The words they know are verbal symbols of the ideas they are familiar with-reduce one and you must reduce the other, for ideas cannot exist without verbalization. Freud once 


3.eastrone
4.enautese
5.enomose
6.eautose

1.ege (geo-)e
8.egrapheine
9.eopsis, optikose
10.ezoione
11.etomee
12.esect匹 
13.elinguae

astronomy astronaut metronome autonomy geology biography autopsy zodiac 
entomology 
linguistics 
14.ephileinephilanthropy 
15.esophosephilosophy 
16.ebiblionebibliophile 
17.eAngluse18.soc让s

sociology 
19.elogosebiology 
20.ebiasebiopsy 

KEY: I-mankind, 2-word, speech, 3-star, 4-sailor, 5-law, order, arrangement. 6-self, 7-earth,8-to write, 9-view, vision, sight, 10-animal, 11-acutting, 12-cut. 13-tongue, 14-to love, 15-wise, 16-book, 17-Englisb, 18-companion, 19-science, study, 20-lifee


TEASER QUESTION FOR THE A从ATEUR ETYMOLOGIST 
1.
Recalling the、rootesophos, wise, and thinking of the Englisheword moron, write the name given to a second-year student in high school or college:eEtymo-logically, what does this word mean? 

2.eBased on the root sophos, what word means world(千wise?e

.. 3. Thinking of bibliophile, define bibliomaniac: 
12-dichotomize, 13-epitome, 14士pitomize,o15-philan-

CHAPTER REVIEW 
A.oDo you recognize the words?o
1.oStudent of the stars and other heavenly phenomena: (a) ge-

ologist, (b) astronomer, (c) anthropologisto

2. Student of plant life: (a) botanist, (b) zoologist, (c) 
biolo-gist
3.oStudent o(insect life: 
(a) sociologist, (b) entomologist, (c)oetymologisto.o
4.oStudent of the meaning and psychology of words: (a) philol-ogist,(b)semanticist, (c) etymologist 
5.oAnalysis of living tissue: (a) autopsy, (b) biopsy, (c) au-tonomy
6.oThat'Y{hich arouses sexual desire: 
(a) zodiac, (b) biblio-c 

7.oSelf-governing: (a) autobiographical, (b)° autonomous, (c) 
dichotomouso

8.oPart that represents the whole: (a) epitome, (b) dichotomy,o



(c)ometronomeo
9. One who physically travels in space: (a) astronomer, (b) as-trologer, (c) astronaut 
10.oOne who has extramarital affairs: (a) cosmonaut, (b) philanderer, (c) philanthropist 

KEY: 1-b, 2-a, 3-b, 4-b, 5-b, 6-c, 7-b, 8-a, 9-c,10-b 
B. Can you recognize roots?o 
ROOT  MEANING  EXAMPLE  
1.血thropoao2. logos  anthropology philology  



Can you recall the words? 
1. pertaining to the study of socialocustoms (adj.)o
2.opertaining to the psychologicaloeffects of words (adj.)o
3. -Jover and collector of bookso
4.omake love promiscuouslyo
5.opertaining to the science of linguistics (adj.)o
6.opertaining to the study ofoinsects (a牡）o
7. one who admires Britishocustomso
8.osmallest particle, so-calledo
9.opertaining to the structure of aobody (adj.)o
10.oa dull, heavy booko
11. split in two (adj.)o
12.oto split in twoo
13.oa condensation, summary, ororepresentation of the wholeo
14.oto stand for the whole; to summarizeo
15.opertaining to charitableoactivities (adj.)o
16.oout of the norm; oddo
17.oone who "p1ays around"o
18.oarousing sexual desire (adj.)o
19.oscience of the manner in whichogroups functiono
20.ose1f-isolated from contact withopeopleo


1. 

2.oSooro
3.oBo
4.opo
5.oP.o

6. 
7. 
8. 9. 
10.oTo
11.oD.o
12.oDo13.o

14. 
15.oP. 
16. 
17.oP. 18.oor Ao19.o
20. 
KEY: 1一sociological,o2-semantic or semantical, 3-bibliophile, 4-philander, 5-philological, 6-entomological, 7-Anglo-phile, 8-atom, 9-anatomical, 10-tome, 11-dichotomous,o
137 


S.. bibliophile e.epertaining to the science ofegroup cultures, conventions,eetc.e6.eAnglophileef.eto split in twoe

7.easociale
g.ewithdrawn from contact withepeoplee
8.etomeeh.ebook collectore
9.ephilologicalei.eto summarizee
10.esociologicalej.eto engage in extramarital sexe


KEY: 1-f, 2-i, 3-j, 4-b, 5-h, 6-d, 7-g, 8-a,9--c,10--e 

1.eIs a philanderer likely to be faithful to aespouse?e
2.eDid Dr. Jekyll-Mr. Hyde lead aedichotomo匹 existence?e
3.eIs an egoist the epitome of selfishness?e
4.eIs a philanthropist antisocial?e
5.eIs an aphrodisiac intended to reducee



sexual interest?e
6.eIs a bibliophile's chief aim theeenjoyment of literature?e
7.eDoes a philologist understandeetymology?e
8.eIs a semanticist interested in more thanethe dictionary meanings of words? 
9. Is an asocial person interested in improving social conditions? 
10.eIs. a light novel considered a tome?e




YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  

KEY: 1-no, 2-yes, 3-yes, 4-no, 5-no, 6-no, 7-yes, 8-yes, 9-no, 10-noe


7.esemantice
8.esemanticale
9.esociologyeIO. sociological 

11.easociale

Can you work with the words? Ill 
1.eentomologye
2.eeccentricity,,e
3.eanatomye
4.edichotomye
5.eepitomee
6.ephilologye
7.esemanticse
8.esociologye・9. aphrodisiace



10.ephilanthropyeS今MAN＇一tike

sa-MAN＇一ta-bl迈'-shee-OL'仑jeeeOT so'-see-OL'七jee忒'-she汪LOJ'今blor忒＇一S"心LOJ'心koleay-ScY-sbal 

a.ephysical structuree
b.esummary; i:epresentation ofethe wholee
c.escience of the meanings andeeffects of wordse
d.elinguisticse
e.escience dealing with insectse
f.escience of social structureseand customse
g.echaritable workse
h.ethat which causes sexualearousale
i.estrangeness; oddness; uncon-ventionalitye
j.econdition or state of beingesplit into two partse



KEY: 1-e,2-i, 3-a，4寸，5-b,6-d, 7-c,8-f, 9-h. 10-g 
Can you work with the words? 1111 

1.edichotomizeea.edull, heavy booke
2.eepitomizeeb.elove potion; aphrodisiace
3.ephilandere
c.epertaining to the study ofelanguagee
4.ephiltered.eone fond of British people,ecustoms, etc.e




USING THE WORDS 

Can you pronounce the.words? (I)・ 
1.ientomologyi
2.ientomologicali
3.ieccentrici
4.ieccentricityi
5.iatomi

6.iatomici



1.ianatomyi
8.ianatomicali
9.itomei

10.idichotomy11.dichotomo匹i
12.idichotomizei
Can you pronounce the words? (II) 
1.iepitomei
2.iepitomizei
3.iphilologyi
4.iphilologicali
5.ilin肛dsticsi
6.iphilanthropyi
7.iphilanthropisti
8.iphilanthropici
9.iphilanderi
10.iphilandereri


Can you pronounce the words? 11111 
1.iphilteri
2.iaphrodisiaci3.aphro出siacali

4.ibibliophilei

5.iAnglophilei6 . semanttcsi



en'一ta-MOL'仑jeeen'七m今LOJ宅kaliok-SEN'-trik 志心n-TRIS'-a-teeiAT'-am a-TOM'-ika-NAT宅meeian＇-a-TOM宅kaliTOMdi-KOT'七meeidi-KOT'-a-masdi-KOT'－今mIz'


a-PIT'，今meeia-PIT'-a-m讫＇位LOL'-a-jeeifil＇心－LOJ'“今比liling-GWIS'-tiks位LAN'－兰pee位LAN'-thr3-pistfil仁an-THROP'-ikifa-LAN'-d忒fa-LAN'-dar-忒








ence, study. Socius is the source of such common words as associ-ate, social, socialize, society, sociable, and antisocial; as well as asocial (ay-SO'-shal), which combines the negative prefix a-with SOCIUS. 

The antisocial person actively dislikes peop比andooften be-haves in ways that are detrimental 
or destructive to society or the social order (anti-, against). 
On the other hand, someone who is asocial is withdrawn and self-centered, avoids contact with others, and feels completely indifferent to the interests or welfare of society. The asocial per-son doesn't want to "get involved." 



REVIEW OF ETY从OLOGYo

PREFIX, ROOT MEANING ENGLISH WORD 
1.oen-
in 
2.otomeoa cutting 
3.oin-in 
4.osectus叩to
5.okentronocenter (centrum)o
6.oa-not, negative 



1.oana-up
8.die加－in two 
9.oepi-
on,upon 
10. logosoword, speech 
11.olinguaotongue 
12.ophileino
to love 
13.osophosowise 14.a
delphos brother 

5.
i biblion book 
16.oAnglusoEnglish 
11.osociusocompanion 
18.oanti-against 





aphrod坤cs(af-ra-DIZ'-ee-ak'), from Aphrodite, the Greek god-d邸sofslovesand Aphrod坤csis an adjective as well as a noun, but a longer ad-jective form, aphrodis让cal(af-ra-da-宜今bl),sis also used. 

A bibliop出le(BIi斗lee-a-钮）issone who loves books as collecti-bles, admiring their binding, typography,诅ustrations,srarity, etc.-in short, a book collector. The combining root is Greek biblion, book. 
An Anglophile (ANG'-gl今钮）admiressand is fond of the Brit-ish people, customs, culture, etc. The combining root is Latin Anglus, English 

5.swords and how they affect peoples

The semanticist is professionally involved in semantics (sa-MAN'-tiks). The adjective is semantic (s今MAN'.tik)sor seman-tical (SQ-MAN＇一区kal).s


Semantics, lilce orthopedics, pediatrics, and obstetrics, is a sin-gular noun despite the -s ending. Semantics is, not are, an exciting study. However, this rule applies only when we refer to the word as a science or area of study. In the following sentence, semantics is used as a plural:''The semantics of your thinking・ are all 
wrong. ＂ 


Two stimulating and highly readable books on the subject, well worth a visit to the li'brary to pick up, are Language in Tho吨htsand Action, by S. I. Hayakawa, and People in Quandaries. by Dr. Wendell Johnson. 


6.show people live 
The profession of the sociologist is sociology (so'-shee-OL'-a-jee or so-s吵OL宅jee).sCan you write, and pronounce, the ad-jective? 
Sociology is built on Latin socius, companion,* plus logos, sci一 

.sCompanion itself has an interesting etymology-Latin com-, with, pluspanis, bread. If you are social, you eujoy breaking bread with companions. Pantry also comes from panis, though far more than bread is stored there. 







More commonly, epitome and the verb epitomi红（今PIT宅m立）areeused in sentences like "She is the epitome of kindness," or''That one act epitomizes her philosophy of life." If you cut ev-erything else away to get to the essential part, that part is a rep-resentative cross-section of the whole. So a woman who is the epit-ome of kindness stands for all people who are kind; and an act that epitomizes a philosophy of life represents, by itseH, the com-plete philosophy. 

3.elove and wordse
Logos, we know, me皿sescience or study,・ it may also meaneword or speech, as it does in philology (fa-LOL'-Q-jee), etymo-logically the love of words (from Greek philein, to love, plus logos), or what is more commonly called linguistics (ling-GWIS'-tiles), the science of language, a term derived from Latin lingua, tongue. 


4.emore lovee

Philanthropy (f今LAN'一中rn-pee)eis by etymology the love ofemankind-one who devotes oneself to philanthropy is a philan-thropist（位LAN'一t氐pist),eas we learned in Chapter 3; the ad-jective is philanthropic (fi巨n-THROP'-ik).e

The verb philander (f:i-LAN'一如），eto "play around" sexually, be promiscuous, or have extramarital relations, combines philein with andros, male. (Philandering, despite its derivation, is not of course exclusively the male province. The word is, in fact, derived from the proper name conventionally given to male love飞 in plays and romances of the 1500s and 1600s.) One who engages in the interesting activities catalogued above is a philanderer (f:r LAN勺hr五）．e

By etymology, philosophy is the love of wisdom (Greek sophos, wise); Philadelphia is the City of Brotherly Love (Greek adel-phos, brother); philharmonic is the love of music or harmony (Greek harmonia, harmony); and a philter, a rarely used word, is a love potion. Today we call whatever arouses sexual desire an 
131 



2.emore cutse

The Greek prefix a-makes a root negative; the atom (AT'-:im)ewas so named at a time when it was considered the smallest possi-ble particle of an element, that is, one that could not be cut any further. (We have long since split the atom, of course, with re--suits, as in most technological advances, both good and evil.) The adjective is atomic (:i--TOM'-ik). 

Th. Greek prefix ana-has a number of meanings, one of which is up, as in anatomy（今NAT'-:i--mee),eoriginally the cutting up of a p1ant or animal to determine its structure, later the bodily struc-ture itself. The adjective is anatomical (an'-:i-TOM'-:i--k:il). 
Originally any book that was part of a larger work of many vol-umes was called a tome (TOM)-etymologically, a part cut from the whole. Today, a tome designates, often disparagingly, an ex-ceptionally large book, or one tl1at is heavy and dull in content. 

The Greek prefix dicha-, in two, combines with tome to con-struct dichotO!J'IY (di-KOT'-:i-mee), a splitting in two, a technical word used in astronomy, biolo窃，botany,eand the science of logic. It is also employed as a non-technical term, as when we refer to the dichotomy in the life of a man who is a government clerk all day and a night一schooleteacher after working hours, 
so that his life is, in a sense, split into two parts. The verb is dichotomize (di-KOT'心丑缸）；theeadjective is dichotomous (di-KOT'-:i-m:is). Dichotomous thinking is the sort that divides everything into two parts-good and bad; white and black; Democrats and Republi-cans; etc. An unknown wit has made this classic statement about dichotomous thinking: "There are two kinds of people: those who divide everything into two parts, and those who do not." 
Imagine a book, a complicated or massive report, or some other elaborate document―now figuratively cut on or through it so that you can get to its essence, the very heart of the idea contained in it. What you have is an epitome（今PIT'仑mee),ea condensation of the whole. (From epi-, on, upon, plus tome.) 
An epitome may refer to a summary, condensation, or abridg-ment of language, as in "Let me have an epitome of the book," or "Give me the epitome of his speech." 




KEY: 1-biopsy, 2-autonomy, 3-metronome, 4-astronaut, 5-cos-monaut, 6-disaster, 7-geography, 8-autonomous, 9-zo-diac, IO-zodiacal, 11-nautical, 12-asterisk, 13-biography 

(End of Session 12) 
SESSION 13 

ORIGINS AND RELATED WORDS 

1.ecutting in and oute
Flies, bees, beetles, wasps, and other insects are segmentedecreatures―head, thorax, and abdomen. Where these parts join, there appears to the imaginative eye a "cutting in" of the body. 
Hence the branch of zoology dealing with insects is aptly named entomology, from Greek en-, in, plus tome, a cutting. The adjective is entomological (en'－臣m今LOJ勺如I).e
(The word insect m吐esethe same point-it is built on Latin in-in, plus sectus, a form of the verb meaning to cut.) 

The prefix ec-, from Greek ek-, means out. (The Latin prefix, you will recall, is e.立）Combineeec-with tome to derive the words for surgical procedures in which parts are "cut out," or removed: tonsillectomy (the tonsils), appendectomy (the appendix), mas-tectomy (the breast), hysterectomy (the uterus), prostatectomy (the prostate), etc. 

Combine ec-with Greek kentron, center (the Latin root, as we 
have discovered, is centrum), to derive eccentric (gk-SEN＇-trik)一一eout of the center, hence deviating from the normal in behavior, attitudes, etc., or unconventional, odd, strange. The noun is ec-centricity (e巳s:;in-TRIS'仑tee).e


129 

7.epertaining to the science of thee 7.eGe 
earth's composition (adj.)e 
8.ebranch of physics dealing withe 8.  
the composition of celestiale 
bodiese 
9.estar-shaped flowere 9.  
10.every high in number;e 10.  
pertaining to the science of thee 
heavens (adj.)e 
11.escience of heavenly bodiese 
12.escience of the development ofe 
mankinde 
13.eperson who believes humane 
 
events are influenced by thee 
paths of the sun, moon, ande 
planetse 
 


KEY: 1-zoo,logical, 2-botanical, 3-autopsy, 4-autobiography, 5-biological, 6-geometry, 7-geological, 8-astrophysics,e9-aster, 10-astronomical, 11-astronomy, 12-anthropology,e13-astrologere

living tissue 
2.e
self-governmente

3.. 
ttime measurer for music 

4.e
voyager among the starse

5.e
traveler through the universee

6.e
great misfortunee

7. 
mapping of the earth (noun)e

8.e
self-governing (adj.)e

9.e
diagram used in astrologye

10.e
pertaining to such a diagrame(adj.)e

11.e
pertaining to ships, sailing, etc.e


i
2. 
Ae

3.e
Me

4.e
Ae

5.e
Ce

6.e
De

7.e
G -8.e9. 


10.e


5.e
Does a disastrous earthquake take a huge toll of life and prop.rty? 

6.e
Do geological investigations sometimes determine where oil is to be found? 

7.e
Dqes a geometrician work with mathematics?_ 

8. 
Do geographical shifts in population sometimes affect the economy of anearea?e

9.e
Does a biographical novel deal with the life of a real person? 

10.e
Is botany a biological science? 

11.e
Is the United States politically autonomous?e

12.e
Is a biopsy performed on a dead body? 

13.e
Is a metronome used in the study ofemathematics?e

14.e
Is an autopsy performed to correct a surgical problem?e

15.e
Does an author write an autobiography 




YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  


KEY: 1-no, 2-no, 3-yes, 4-yes, 5-yes, 6-yes, 7-yes, 8-yes, 9-yes, 10-yes, 11-yes, 12-no, 13-no, 14-no, 15-noe
Can you recall the words? Ill 
l. pertaining to the science ofe1. animals (adj.)e
2.e
pertaining to the science ofe

3. 
dissection of a corpse toedetermine the cause of deathe

4. 
story of one's life, self-written 

5. 
pertaining to the science of all living matter (adj.)e

6.e
science of the measurement ofe6.eG.e




:figures 


127 



8. zoology h. science of the heavens 
9. geography 、 i. mathematical science of fig-ures,shapes,etc. 


Can you work with the words? Ill) 
1. autopsy 
a. "sailor among the stars" 
2. biopsy b. star-shaped flower 
3. biography c. story of one's own life 
4. autobiography 
d. dissection and exam血tion of a corpse to determine the cause of death 
5. zodiac e. great misfortune 
6. astronaut f. "sailor of the universe" 
7. cosmonaut g. story of someone's life 
8. aster h. diagram of paths of sun, moon, and planets 
9. disaster i.．．instrument to measure musi一 



cal time l 0. autonomy j. self-rule 
11. metronome k. examination of living tissue 

Do you understand the words?  
1. Are anthropological studies concerned  YES  NO  
with plant life?  
2. Are astronomical numbers extremely  YES  NO  
small?  
3. Is an astrologer interested in the time  YES  NO  
and date of your birth?  
4. Are nautical maneuvers carried on at  YES  NO  
sea?  



8.egeographicalje斗仑GRAF今k:ile
9.ebiologyebi-OL'七jeee

10.ebiologicalebi'勺-LOJ'-:i-k:ile11.ebiographybI-0G'一江feee
12.ebiographerbI-OG'一江f忒 
13.ebiographicale
bi'-:i-GRAF'－今kale


Can you pronounce the words? (Ill) 
1.eautonomye
2.eautonomouse
3.e-metronomee
4.eautobiographye
5.eautobiographere
6.eautobiographicale
7.ebiopsye
8.eautopsye
9.ebotanye
10.ebotanicale
11.ezoolo幻 
12.ezoologicale
13.ezodiace
14.ezodiacale




Can you work with the words? (I) 
1.eanthropologye
2.eastronomye
3.eastrologye
4.egeologye
5.ebiologye
6.egeometrye
7.ebotanye




aw-TON勺－meeaw-TON宅m3SeMET'-f:)-nom' aw'－氐证OG'-rn-feeaw'七bI-0G'-r吐reaw七bI'仑-GR心勺妇1eBI'-op-see A W'-top-see BOT'．今neeeb今TAN'勺－K3l幻-OL'-Q-jee忒-:)-LOJ'-Q-bleZcY-dee-ak 忒－DI'仑kQIe



a.etheory of the influence ofeplanets 
and stars on humaneeventse
b.escience of earth-mappinge
c.escience of all living mattere
d.escience of human develop-mente
e.escience of plantse
f.escience of the composition ofe
the earthe
g.escience of animal lifee





125 


9. metronomeasurement 
10. ge (geo一）oearth 
11.ographeinoto write 
12.obios life 
13.oopsis. optikos view, vision, sight 
14.obotaneoplant 
15. zaionoanimal 




USING THE WORDS 
Can you pronounce the words? (I) 

1.oanthropologyan'-thr迂OL'七jeeo
2. anthropological an'-thrn-p吐OJ'-a-kalo
3.oastronomy今STRON宅meeo
4. astronomicaloas＇一trn-NOM'仑kalo
5.oastrology 沁TROL'仑jeeo
6.oastrologicalas'－扛LOJ仁a-kalo
1.oastronautAS'一tra-noot'o


8. cosmonaut KOZ'-ma-not' 
9. nautical NOT'-a-kal 
10. asteroAS'-tar 
11. asterisko, AS'-ta-risk 
12.odisaster d今ZAS'一taro
13. disastrousoda-ZAS'-tr:is 


Can you pronounce the words? 1111 
1.ogeology jee-OI.;勺－jeeo
2.ogeologicalje.-a-LOJ'，七lo

3.ogeometryojee-OM'-a-tree 
4. geometrtctanojee＇一a-ma-TRISH'-ano
5. geometricojee仑MET'-rikojee-OG'-ra-fee 


1. geographerojee-OG'-r.i-far 







124 

gated for evidence of malignancy. A biopsy is contrasted with an 
autopsy (AW'-top-see), which is medical examination of a 
corpse in order to discover the cause a of death. Th autos in au-
topsy means, as you know, self-in an autopsy, etymologically 
speaking, the surgeon or pathologist determines, by actual view or 
sight 
rather than by theorizing (ie., "by viewing or seeing for 
oneselP'), what brought the corpse to its present grievous state. 
Botanist is from Greek botane, plant. The field is botany 
(BOT'-:i-nee); the adjective is botanical (b:i-TAN＇七k:il).e
Zoologist is from Greek zoion, animal. The science is zaolc:.眨e
The adjective? . The combina-
tion of the two o's tempts many people to pronounce the first 
three letters of these words in one syllable, thus: zoo. However, 
the two o's should be separated, as in co-operate, even though no 
hyphen is used in the spelling to indicate such separation. Say办 
OL'七jist,ezo-0:L'七jee,动'-:i-LOJ'仑-k:il.eZoo, a park for ani-
mals, is a shortened form of zoological gardens, and is, of course, 
pronounced in one syllable. 

The zodiac (ZcY-dee-ak) is a diagram, used in astrology, of thee
.e
paths of the sun, moon, and planets; it contains, in part, Latine
names for various animals--scorpio, scorpion; leo, lion; cancer,e

crab; taurus, bull; aries, ram; and pisces, fish. Hence its derivatione
from :zoion, animal.e
The adjective is zodiacal (zo-Di仁今k:il).e

REVIEW OF ETY从OLOGYe

PREFIX, ROOT MEANING ENGLISH WORD 
1.eanthroposemankind 
2.elogosescience, study 3.. astronestar 

4.enautesesailor 
5.enauseship 
6.edi乒 against 

1.enomosearrangement, law, order 
8.eautoseself 




big reasons for the revolution of 1776 was that America wanted 血tonomy,orather than control by England. 

You know the instrument that beginners at the piano use to guide their timing? A pendulum swings back and forth, making an audible click at each swing,.and in that way governs or orders the measure (or timing) of the player. Hence it is called a metronome (MET宅nom'),oa word that combines nomos with metron, measurement. 
2.othe earth and its life 

Geologist derives from Greek ge (geo-), earth. The science is geology (jee-OL勺－jee).oCan you write the adjective? (Can you pronounce it?) 
Geometry (jee-0M'-a-tree)―ge plus metron一byoetymology 
"measurement of the earth," is that branch of m11.thematics treat-



such as angles, triangles, squares, spheres, prisms, etc. (The ety-mology of the word shows that this ancient science'was originally concerned with the measurement-of land and spaces on the earth.）、oThe mathematician is a geometrician (je.今ma-TRISH'如），othe adjective is geometric (jee'心MET'-rik).o


Geography (jee-OG'-.fee) is writing about (graphein, to write), or mapping, the earth. A practitioner of the science is a ge-ographer (jee-OG'-.far), the adjective is geographic (jee-牛 GRAF-ik). 
(The name George坛alsooderived from ge (geo-),.earth, plus ergon, work-the first George was an earth-worker or farmer.) Bio/og泣combinesobios, life, with logos, science, study. The sci-ence is biology (bi-OL'-a-jee). The adjective? 

about someone's. life; autobiography (aw'七－bi-OG'-r今fee),othe 
Bios, life, is also found in biography (bi-OG'-ra-fee), writing story of one's life written by oneself; and biopsy (BI'-op-see), a medical examination, or view (opsis, optikos, view, vision), gen-erally through a microscope, of living tissue, frequently performed when cancer is suspected. A small part of the tissue is cut from the affected area and under the microscope its cells can be investi-






ment of stars and other celestial bodies. The science is. astronomy (.i-STRON宅mee),ethe adjective is astronomical (as'-tr.i-NOM'-.i-k.il), a word often used in a non-heavenly sense, as in "the astronomical size of the national debt." Astronomy deals in such enormous distances (the sun, for example, is 93,000,000 miles from the earth, and light from stars travels toward the earth at 186,000 miles per second) that the adjective astronomical is 
applied to any tremendoμsly large figure. 
Astron, star, combines with logos to fonn astrology (::i-STROL'-
衬ee),ewhich assesses the influence of planets and stars on human 
events. The practitioner is an astrologer (::i-STROL'-::i-j忒）．Cane
you form the adjective? (Can 
you pronounce it?) 
By etymology, an avtron血(AS'-tr.i-not')eis a sailor among 
the stars (Greek皿utes,esailor). This person is termed with some-
what less exaggeration a cosmonaut (KOZ'-m今not')by the Rus-
sians (Greek, kosmos, universe). Nautical (NOT'仑k::il),erelating 
to sailors, sailing, ships, or navigation, derives also from nautes, 
and nautes in tum is from Greek naus, ship-a root used in nau-
sea (etymologically, ship-sickness or seasickness!). 
Aster (AS'七r)eis a star shaped flower. Asterisk (AS'-t::i-risk), 
a star-shaped symbol (*), is generally used in writing or printing 
to direct the reader to look for a footnote. Astrophysics (as'呤e
FIZ'-iks) is that branch of physics dealing with heavenly bodies. 
Disaster (d忒ZAS'-t:1r)eand disastrous (d:1-ZAS勺r:is)ealso 
come from astron, star. In ancient times it was believed that the 
stars ruled human destiny; any misfortune or calamity, therefore, 
happened to someone because the stars were in opposition. (Dis-, 
a prefix of many meanings, in this word signifies against.) 

Nomos, arrangement, law, or order, is found in two other in-
teresting English words. 
For example, if you can make your own laws for yourself, if 
you needn't answer to anyone else for what you do, in short, if 
you are independent, then you enjoy autonomy (aw-TON'心 
mee), a word that combines nomos, law, with autos, self. Au-
tonomy, then, is self-law, self-government. The fifty states in our 

nation are fairly autonomous (aw-TO'.N'-:i-m:is), but not com-
pletely so. On the other hand, ・in most colleges each separate de-
partment is pretty much autonomous. And of course, one of the 


Can you recall the words? 
1. insects 1. 
2.olanguage 2. Po
3.osocial conditions 3. S. 
4.ohistory of development of 4.oAomankind 
5. meanings of wordso5.oS 6. plantso6.o8 

7. the eartho7.oGo
8.othe heavenly bodieso8.oA 
9. all living things 9. B. 10.oanimalso10. 

KEY: 1-entomologist, 2-philologist, 3-sociologist, 4-anthropolo-gist, 5-scmanticist, 6-botanist, ?-geologist, 8-astronomer, 
9-biologist, 10-zoologisto
(End of Session 11) 

SESSION 12 

ORIGINS AND RELATED WORDS 

1. people and the starso
Anthropologist is constructed from roots we are familiar with一 anthropos, mankind, andlogos, science, study. The science is anthropology (an'一thr:l'-POL'-:i一jee).oCan you write the adjective fonn of tl1is word? (Can you pronounce it?) Astronomer is built on Greek astron, star, and nomos, arrange-ment, law, or order. The astronomer is interested in the arrange-

USING THE WORDS 
Can you pronounce the words? 
1.oanthropologisto
2. astronomero
3. geologisto
4.obiologisto
5. botanisto
6.ozoologisto
7. entomologisto
8. philologisto
9.osemanticist 
10. sociologist 


Can you work with the words? 

SCIENTIST 
1. anthropologisto
2.oastronomero
3.ogeologisto
4. biologisto
5. botanisto
6. zoologisto
7.oentomologisto
8.ophilologist 
9.osemanticisto




an'-th心OL今jist今STRON'仑marojee-OL'-a-jist bi-OL宅jistoBOT'-a-nist 迈OL'仑jisten'-ta-MOL宅jistfa-LOL宅jists;i-MAN'－氐sisto
..,,. so.shee-OL'-;i-jist ors孔see-OL'-叶ist


PROFESSIONAL FIELD 
a.ocommunity and family lifeo
b.omeanings and psychologicaloeffects of wordso
c.odevelopment of the humanorace 
d. celestial phenomenao
e. languageo
f.oinsect formso
g. the eartho
h.oall forms of living mattero
i. animal lifeo





119 



7. and all the little bugs 
There are over 650,000 different. species of insects, and millionseof individuals of every species--and this scientist is interested in every one of them. An entomologist 

8.etower of Babele
This linguistic scientist explores the subtle, intangible, elusiveeuses of that unique tool that distinguishes human beings from all other forms of life---to wit: language. This person is, in short, a student of linguistics, ancient and modem, primitive and cultured, Chinese, Hebrew, Icelandic, Slavic, Teutonic, and every other kind spoken now or in the past by human beings, not excluding that delightful hodgepodge known as "pidgin English," in which a piano is described as "big box, you hit'um in teeth, he cry," and in whi_ch Hamlet's famous quandary, "To be or not to be, that is the question...," is translated into "Can do, no can do―how fashion?" 

A philologist 9. what do you really mean?e
This. linguistic scientist explored the subtle, intangible, elusive relationship between language and thinking, between meaning and words;.and is interested in determining the psychological causes and effects of what people say and write. 
A semanticist 
10.ewho are your friends and neighbors?e
This scientist is a student of the ways in which people live to-gether, their family and community structures and customs, their housing, their social relationships, their forms of government, and their layers of caste and class. 

A sociologist 






3.eand what's below?e
The field is the comparatively little and insignificant whirlingeball on which we liveethe earth. How did our planet come into
― 
being, what 
is it made of, how were its mountains, oceans, rivers, plains, and valleys formed, and what's down deep if you start dig-

ging? A geologist 
4.ewhat is life?e

The field is all living organisms
―
from the simplest one-ceiledeamoeba to the amazingly complex and mystifying stn1cture 
we call a human being. Plant or animal, flesh or vegetable, denizen of water, earth, or air-if it'lives and grows, this scientist wants to know more about it. 
A biologist 

5.eflorae
Biology classifies life into 
two great divisions--plant and ani一 ma!. This scientist's province is the former category―flowers,. trees, shrubs, mosses, marine vegetation; blossoms, fruits, seeds, grasses, and all tl1e rest that make up the plant king.om. 

A botanist 
6.eand faunae
Animals of every description. kind, and condition, from birds toebees, fish to fowl, reptiles to humans, are the special area_ of ex-ploration of this scientist: 


A zoologist 
117 


SESSION 11 
A true scientist Jives up to the etymological meaning of his title "one who knows." Anything scientific is based on facts一observ-
able facts that can be recorded, tested, checked, and veri.fied. 
Science, then, deals with human knowledge--as far as it has gone. It has gone very far indeed since the last century or two, when we stopped basing our thinking on guesses, wishes, theories that had no foundation in reality, and concepts of how the world ought to be; and instead began to explore tlie world as it was, and not only the world but the whole universe. From Galileo, who looked through the first telescope atop a tower in Pisa, Italy, through Pasteur, who watched microbes through a microscope, to Einstein, who deciphered riddles of the universe by means of mathematics, we have at last begun to fill in a few areas of igno-rance. 
Who of the more important explorers of knowl-edge--and bare y whasome t tenns are they known? 

IDEAS 
1. whither mankind?o

The field is all mankind―how we developed in mind and body from primitive cultures and early forms. 

An anthropologist 
2. what's above? 
―
The field is the heavens and all that's i.n themoplanets, galaxies, stars, and other universes. 

An astronomer 


6 


HOW TO TALK ABOUT SCIENCE AND SCIENTISTS 
(Sessions 11-13) 


TEASER PREVIEW 
What scientist: ．比interested in the development of the加man race? 

. is a student of the heavens?
・扛pleres 
the physical qualities of the earth? 

. studies all living matter? 
. is a student of plant life? 
. is a student of animal life?
. is professionally involved in inse忱？ 
. is a student of language? 
. is a student of the psychological efjects of words? 
. studies the culture, structure, and customs of difjerent socie-











To bring this report up to the minute, I asked a number of edi-tors about their attitude toward the split infinitive. Here are two typical reactions. 

An editor at Doubleday and Company: "The restriction against the split infinitive. is, to my mind, the most artificial of all gram-matical rules. I find that most educated people split infinitives reg-ularly in their speech, and only eliminate them from their writing when they rewrite and polish their material." 
An editor at Reader's Digest: "I want to defend the split infini-tive. The construction adds to the strength of the sentence--it's compact and clear. This is to loudly say that I split an infinitive whenever I can catch one." 
And here, finally, is the opinion of humorist James Thurber, as quoted by Rudolf Flesch in The Art of Plain Talk: "Word has somehow got around that the split infinitive is always wrong. This is of a piece with the outworn notion・ that it is always wrong to strike a lady." 
I think the evidence is conclusive enough―it is perfectly correct to consciously split an infinitive whenever such an act increases the strength or clarity of your sentence. 







may only prescribe and fit glasses. And they are not medical doc-tors. The M.D. who specializes in the treatment of eye diseases, and who may operate when necessary, is an ophthalmologist. (See Chapter 4.) 


7. Do you prophecy another world war?e
WRONG. _Use prophecy only when you mean prediction, a noun.eWhen you mean predict, a verb, as in this sentence, use prophesy. This distinction is simple and foolproof. Therefore we properly say: "His ・prophecy (prediction) turned out to be true," but."He really seems able to prophesy (predict) political trends." There is a distinction also in the pronunciation of these two words. Proph-ecy is pronounced PROF'今see;eprophesy is pronunced PROF'-a-si'. 

8. Leave us not mention it.e
WRONG. On the less sophisticated levels of American speech,eleave is a popular substitute for let. On educated levels, the fol-lowing distinction is carefully observed: let means allow; leave means depart. (There are a few idiomatic exceptions to this rule, but they present no problem.) "Let me go" is preferable to "Leave me go" even on the most informal of occasions, and a sentence like "Leave us not mention it" is not considered standard English. 
9. If you expect to eventually succeed, you must keep trying.e
RIGHT. We have here, in case you're puzzled, an example ofethat notorious bugbear of academic grammar, the "split infinitive." (An infinitive is a verb preceded by to: to succeed, to fail, to 
remember.) Splitting an infinitive is not at all difficult
―you need only insert a word between the to and the verb: to eventually succeed, to completely fail, to quickly remember. 
Now・ that you know how to split an infinitive, the important question is, is it legal to do so? I am happy to be able to report to you that it is not only legal, it is also ethical, moral, and some-times more effective than to not split it. Benjamin Franklin, Wash-ington Irving, Nathaniel Hawthorne, Theodore Roosevelt, and Woodrow Wilson, among many others, were unconscionable infinitive splitters. And modem writers are equally partial to the construction. 



yourself in the position 
of being damned if you do and damned if you don't. 

3.eFive and five is ten.e

RIOHT. But don't jump to the conclusion that "five and five areeten" is wrong一botheverbs are equally acceptable in this or any similar construction. If you prefer to think of "five-and-five" as a single mathematical concept, say is. If you find it more reasonable 
to consider "five and five" a plural idea, say are. The teachers I've polled o.nthis point are about evenly divided in preference, and so, I imagine, are the rest of us. Use whichever verb has the greater appeal to your sense of logic. 

4.eI never saw a man get so mad.e
RIGHT. When I questioned a number of authors. and editorseabout their opinion of the acceptability of mad as a synonym for angry, the typicalreaction was: "Yes, I say mad, but I always feel a little guilty when I do." 
Most people do say mad when they are sure there is no English teacher listening; it's a good sharp word, everybody understands exactly what it means, and it's a lot stronger than angry, though not quite as violent as furious or enraged. In short, mad has a spe-cial implication offered by no other word in the English language; as a consequence, educated people use it as the occasion demands and it is perfectly correct. So correct, in fact, that every authori-tative dictionary lists it as a completely acceptable usage. If you feel guilty when you say mad, even though you dori't mean ins(lne, 



5.eEvery one of his sisters are unmarried.e
WRONG. 
Are is perhaps the more logical word, since the sen-tence implies that he has mor. than one sister and they are all un-married. In educated speech, however, the tendency is to. make the verb agree with the subject, even if logic is violated in the process--and the better choice here would be is, agreeing with the singular subject, every one. 

6.eHe visited an optometrist for an eye operation.e
WRONG. If the gentleman in question did indeed need an opera-tion, he went to the wrong doctor. In most states, optometrists are forbidden by Jaw to perform surgery or administer drugs―they 


"Me, please尸e
"No, dear, not me." 
"Oh. I, please?" 

(This sounds terrible to a child's ear. It completely violates his sense of language, but he does want the jelly apple, so he grudg-ingly conforms.) 


"Who broke my best vase?" 
"It wasn't me!" 
"Is that good English, Johnnie?" 
"Okay, it wasn't I. But honest, Mom, it wasn't me--1 didn't 
even touch it!" And so, if the child is strong enough to survive such constant corrections, he decides that whenever there is room for doubt, it is safer to say I. Some adults, conditi9ned in childhood by the kind of misguided censorship detailed here, are likely to believe that "between you and I" is the more elegant form of expression, but most educated speakers, obeying the rule that a preposition governs the objective pronoun, say "between you and me." 


2.eI'm your best friend, ain't I?e
W-RONG. As linguistic-scholars have frequently pointed out, it is unfortunate that ain't I? is unpopular in educated speech, for the phrase fills a long-felt need. Am I not? is too prissy for down如eearth people; amn't I? is ridiculous; and aren't I, though popular in England, has never really caught on in America. With a sen-tence like the one under discussion you are practically in a linguis-tic trap-there is no way out unless you are willing to choose be-tween appearing illiterate, sounding prissy, or feeling ridiculous. 
"What is the matter with ain't I? for am I not?" language scholar Wallace Rice once wrote. "Nothing whatever, save that a number of minor grammarians object to it. Ain't I? has a pleasant sound once the ears are unstopped of prejudice." Mr. Rice has a valid point there,、 yeteeducated people avoid ain't l? as if it were catching. In all honesty, therefore, I must say to you: don't use ain't I?, except humorously. Wptisea safe substitute? Apparently none exists, so I suggest that you manage, by some linguistic calis-thenics, to avoid having to make a choice. Otherwise you may find 


111 


tended to heJp you come to a decision about certain controversial expressions. As you read each sentence, pay particular attention to the italicized word or words. Does the usage square with your own language patterns? Would you be willing to phrase your thoughts in just such terms? Decide whether the sentence is right or wron&, then compare your conclusion with the opinions given following the test. 
TEST YOURSELF 
1.eLet's keep this between you and I.e RIGHT  WRONG  
2.eI'm your best friend, ain't I?e RIGHT  WRONG  
3.eFive and five is ten.e RIGHT  WRONG  
4.eI never saw a man get so mad.e RIGHT  WRONG  
5.eEvery one of his sisters are unmarried.e RIGHT  WRONG  
6.eHe visited an optometr泣forean eyee RIGHT  WRONG  
operation.e 
 
 
7.eDo you prophecy another world war?e RIGHT  WRONG  
8.eLeave us not mention it.e RIGHT  WRONG  
9.eIf you expect to eventually succeed, youe RIGHT  WRONG  
must keep trying.e 


1.eLet's keep this between you and I.e
WRONG. Children. are so frequently corrected by parents and teachers when they say me that they cannot be blamed if they begin to think that this simple syllable is probably a naughty word. Dialogues such as the following are certainly typical of many households. 
"Mother, can me and Johnnie go out and play?" 
"No, dear, not until you say it correctly. You mean'May John-nie and I go out to play?'" 
"Who wants a jelly apple?" 
"Me!" 
"Then use・ the proper word." (The child becomes a little confused at this point-there seem to be so many''ptoper''and "improper''words.) 






Brief Intermission Three 
HOW GRAMMAR CHANGES 


If you think that grammar is 
an exact science, get ready for a shock. Grammar is a science, all right-but it is most inexact. There are no inflexible laws, no absolutely hard and fast rules, no unchanging principles. Correctness varies with the times and depends much more on geography, on social class, and on collec-_ tive human caprice than on the restrictions found in textbooks. 
In mathematics, which is an exact science, five and five make ten the country over-in the North, in the South, in the West; in Los Angeles and Coral Gables and New York. There are no two opinions on the matter一weeare dealing, so far as we know, with a universal and indisputable fact. 

In grammar, however, since the facts are highly susceptible to change, we have to keep an eye peeled for trends. What are educated people saying these days? W珈heexpressions are gener-ally used and accepted on educated levels, which others are more or less restricted to the less educated levels of speech? The an-swers to these questions indicate the氐ndeof usage in the United States, and if such trends come in conflict with academic rules, then the rules are no longer of any great importance. 
Grammar follows the speech habits of the majority of educated people-not the other way around. That is the important point to keep in mind. 
The following notes on current trends in modem usage are in-



109 

suddenly and inexplicably become popular among writers? Obvi一eously, that's nonsense. 
The change is in you. You have now begun to be alert to words, you have developed.what is known in psychology as a "mind-set" toward certain words. Therefore, whenever these words occur in your reading you talce special notice of them. 

The same words occurred before--and just as plentifully一butesince they presented little communication to you, you reacted to them with an unseeing eye, with an ungrasping mind. You were figuratively, and almost liter扯y,eblind-to them. 
Do you remember when you bought, or contemplated buying, a new car? Let's say it was a Toyota. Suddenly you began to see Toyotas all around you-you had a Toyota "mind-set."・ 

It is thus with anything new in your life. Development of a "mind-set" means that the new experience has become very real, very important, almost vital. 


If you have become suddenly alert to the new words you have been learning, you're well alQng toward your goal of-building a superior vocabulary. You are beginning to live in a new and dif-ferent intellectual atmosphere-nothing less! 
On the other h皿d,eif the phenomenon I have been describing 
has not yet occurred, do not despair. It will. I am alerting you to 
its possibilities--recognize it and welcome it when it happens. 

(End of Session 10) 






TEASER QUESTIONS FOR THE A从ATEUR ETYMOLOGIST 

1.eLatin octoginta is a root related to Greek okto, eight. Howeold is an octogenarian (ok'七j:i-NAIR.'-ee-Qn)?e
2.eYou are fanuliar with kakos, bad, harsh, as in cacograp帜e


and with phone, sound, as in phonograph. Can you construct a word ending in the letter y that means harsh, unpleasant sound? 
.e(Can you pronounce it?)e
3.eUsing callipygian as a model, can you construct a word toe
describe an ugly, unshapely rear end? (Can you pronounce it?) 
4.eUsing the prefix tele-, distance, can you think of the wordefor a field glass that permits the viewer to see great distances? 
. How about a word for theeinstrument that transmits sound over a distance?e
. Finally, what is it that makes it possible for youeto view happenings that occur a great distance away?e



(Answers in Chapter 18) 
BECO从ING WORD-CONSCIOUS 
Perhaps, if you have been working as assiduously with this book as I have repeatedly counseled, you have noticed an interest-ing phenomenon. 
This phenomenon is as follows: You read a magazine article and suddenly you see one or more of the words you have recently learned. Or you open a book and there again are some of the words you have been ・ working with. In short, all your reading seems to call to your attention the very words you've been study-ing. 
Why? Have I, with uncanny foresight, picked words which have 


15.oAntisocial person who may commit criminal acts: (a) psy-chopath, (b) sociopath, (c) osteopatho


B.oCan you recognize roots?o 
ROOT  MEANING  EXAMPLE  
l.opsycheo psychiatry  
2.oiatreiao podiatry  
3.osomao psychosomatic  
4.opathoso osteopath  
5.oorthoso orthodontia  
6.opaidos (ped-)o pedodontist  
1.oodontoso exodoptist  
8.. pous, podoso platypus  
9.ocheir (chiro-)o chiropodist  
10.ooktoo octopus  
11.ographeino graphology  
12.okalloso calligraphy  
13.opygeo callipygian  
14.okakoso 

cacography 
15.o
photoso

16.o
tele-

17.o
bioso

18.o
gera.vo

19.o
gerono

20.o
senexo


telegraph biography geriatrics gerontology 
senate 
KEY: 1-mind, 2-medical healing, 3-body, 4-disease, 5-straight, correct, khild, 7-tooth, 8-foot, 9-hand, 10-eight, 11-:-to write, 12-beauty, 13-J>uttocks, 14-bad, ugly, 15-light, 




7.opossessed of beautiful or shapelyo7.oC.obuttockso
KEY: 1-gerontological, 2-senescent, 3-calligraphic, 4-cacogra-pher, 5-senile, 6-graphological, 7-callipygian 
CHAPTER REVIEW 

A.oDo you recognize the words?o

1.oPractitioner trained in Freudian techniques: (a) psycho!-ogist,(b)psychoanalyst, (c) psychotherapisto
2.oFoot doctor: (a) podiatrist, (b) osteopath, (c) chiropractoro
3. Handwriting analyst: (a) graphologist, (b) chirographer, (c)ocacographero
4.oMentally or emotionally disturbed: (a) psychological, (b)opsychopathic, (c) psychico.
合

5.oOriginating in the emotions: (a) psychic, (b) psychogenic,o
6.oDescribing bodily ailments tied up with the emotions: (a)opsychosomatic, (b) psychopathic, (c) psychiatrico
7.oGum specialist: (a) periodontist, (b) pedodontist, (c) en-dodontisto
8.oSpecialist in tooth extraction: (a) orthodontist,(b)exodontist,o


(c) endodontisto


9.oBlood-pressure apparatus: (a) barometer, (b) thermometer,o
10.oPrediction by palm reading: (a) chirography,(b)chiropody,o

(c)ochiromancyo
1 1. Possessed of a shapely posterior: (a) calligraphic, (b) calli-

12.A呻ticohandwriting: (a) calligraphy, (b) chirography, (c)o

graphologyo
13.oGrowing old: (a) senile,(b)geriatric, (c) senescento
14.oMedical specialty dealing with the aged: (a) gerontology,o(b)geriatrics, (c) chiropractico





Do you understand the words? 
1. 
Graphology analyzes the grammar, TRUE FALSE spelling, and sentence structure of written 
material. 

2. 
A calligrapher creates artistic forms out TRUE FALSE of alphabetical symbols. 

3. 
Tight slacks are best worn by those of TRUE FALSE cal/ipygian anatomy. 

4. 
Cacographic writing is easy to read. TRUE FALSE 

5. 
Gerontology aims to help old people live TRUE FALSE more comfortably. 

6. 
Senile people are old but still vigorous TRUE FALSB and mentally alert. 

7. 
In a society dedicated to the worship of TRUE FALSE youth, senescence is not an attractive prospect. 






Can you re_call the words? 
I. pertaining to the study of the 1. G non-medical problems of the aged (adfj 
2. growing old (adj.) 2. S. 

3. 
pertaining to handwriting as an 3. artistic expression (adj.) 

4. 
one who uses ugly, illegible 4. handwriting 

5. 
mentally and physically 5. S. deteriorated from old age 

6. 
pertaining to the analysis of 6. G handwriting (adj.) 






USING THE WORDS 
Can・ you pronounce the words? 
1.ographologyo
2. graphologicalo
3. calligraphy 
4.ocalligraphero
5. calligraphico
6. callipygiano
7. cacographyo
8. cacographer 
9.ocacographic 
10. gerontologyo
11. gerontologicalo
12.osenileo
13. senilityo
14.osenescento
15. senescenceo

Can you work with the words? 
1. graphologyo
2.ocalligraphyo
3.ocallipygiano



gm-FOL'七jeeograf-a-LOJ'-a-kal k亡LIG'－r今feeok今LIG'-m-farokal'-a-GRAF'-ik kal'－今PIJ'-ee-anok今KOG'-ra-feeok千KOG'-J"Q-farokak'－今GRAF'-iko


SEE'-nU S今NIL'-a-tee臣LOJ'心kalojair'-an-TOL'仑jeejair'-an-
S今NES'心nto
S今NES'.nso
a.opossessed of beautiful but-tockso
b. science of the social,. eco-nomic, etc. problems of theoaged 
c. condition of aging or grow-



ingoldo
d.odeteriorated old ageo
e. analysois of handwritingo


5.ogerontologyo
6. senilitoyof.ougly, bad, il1egible hand-writingo
7.osenescence g. beautiful handwriting; hand-



KEY: 1-e,2-g, 3-a, 4-f, 5-b, 6-d, 7-c 
103 
geron, old man, the root in gerontologi．寸．Theespecialty is gerontol-ogy (jair'-:in-TOL'..g..jee), the adjective is gerontological (jair'-:in-t:i-LOJ勺.-k:il).e
The Latin word for old is senex, the base on which senile,e
_e
senescent, senior, and senate are built. 
1.esenile (SEE'-血)-showingesigns of the physical and/ oremental deterioration that generally marks very old age. The noun is senil切（s今NIL＇仑tee).e
2.esenescent (sg..N郎'-ant)―aging,egrowing old. (Note theesame suffix in this word as in adolescent, growing into an adult, convalescent, growing healthy again, and obsolescent, growing or becoming obsolete.) The noun is senescence (s:i-N邸勺ns).e
3. senior (SEEN＇一y:ir)-oIder.eNoun: seniority (seen-YAWR'-今tee).e

4.esenate (SEN'-:it)-originally a council of older, and presum-ably wiser, citizens. 
REVIEW OF ETYMOLOGY 
PREF.IX, ROOT,  
SUFFIX  MEANING  ENGLISH WORD  
1.egrapheine to write  
2.echeir (chiro-)e hand  
3.ekallose beauty  
4.e-ere one who  
5.e-ice adjective suffix  
6.epygee buttocks  
1.ekakose bad, harsh  
8.ekardiae heart  
9.ephotose light  
10.etele- distance  
11.ebiose life  
12.egerase old age  
13.egerone old man  
14.esenexe old  
15.e-escente growing, becoming  





Though chirography may be a lost art, calligraphy（k:i-LIG'-ra-fee) is enjoying a revival. For centuries before the advent.of print-ing, calligraphy, or penmanship as an artistic expression, was practiced by monks. 
A calligrapher (ka-LIG'-n过ar)eis called upon to design and write announcements, place cards, etc., as a touch of elegance. The adjective is calligrap加(kal＇心GRAF'-ik).e
Calligraphy combines graphein with Greek kallos,:I: beauty, and so, by etymology, means beautiful writing. If a word exists for artistic handwriting, there m匹tebe one for the opposite--bad, scrawly, or illegible handwriting. And indeed 
there is--cacography (ka-KOG＇-rn-fee), combining graphein 
with Greek kakos, bad, harsh. By analogy with the forms of calligraphy, can you write the word for: One who uses bad or illegible handwriting? 
Pertaining to, or marked by, bad handwriting (adjective)? 
Graphein is found in other English words: 
1.ecardiograph (discussed in Chapter 4)-etymologically ae
"heart writer''(kardia, heart). 

"written by light" (Greek a "sound writer" (Greeke
4.etelegraph-etymologically a "distance writer" (Greek tele-,edistance). 
5.
biography-etymologically "life writin旷(Greek,ebios, life).e


(Many of these new.roots will be discussed in greater detail inelater chapters.) 
2.eaging and the olde
We know that a geriatrician specializes in the medical care ofethe elder.y. The Greek word geras, old・ age, has a derived form, 
土 Aneentrancing word that also derives from kallos is callipygian (kal'-oPIJ'-ee-叩），aneadjective describing a shapely or attractive rear end, or a 
person so endowed一出eecombining root is pyge, buttocks. 

101 

5.oan early starto
You have such a long history of persistent falsification that oneocan only suspect that your vice started when you were reposing in your mother's womb. In other words, and allowing for a greatdeal of exaggeration for effect, you have been lying from the mo-ment of your birth. 
A congenital liar 


6. no letup

You never.stop lying. While normal people lie on occasion, andooften for special reasons, you lie continually-not occ.asionally or even frequently, but over and over. 
A chronic liar 
7. a strange diseaseo
You are not concerned with the difference between truth andofalsehood; you do not bother to distinguish fact from fantasy. In fact, your lying is a dise_ase that no antibiotic can cure. 
A pathological liar 
8.ono regretso
You are completely without a conscience. No matter whatomisery your fabrications may cause your innocent victims, you never feel the slightest twinge of guilt. Totally unscrupulous, you are a dangerous person to get mixed up with. 
An unconscionable liar 
Possessed of a lively imagination and a ready tongue, you canodistort facts as smoothly and as effortlessly as you can say your name. But you do not always get away with your lies. 







Ironically enough, it is your very smoothness that makes you suspect: your answers are too quick to be true. Even if we can't immediately catch you in your lies, we have learned from unhappy past experience not to. suspend our critical faculties when you are talking. We admire your nimble wit, but we listen with a skeptical 
ear. 

A glib liar 

Lies, after all, are bad-they are frequently injurious to other people, and may have a particularly dangerous effect on you as a liar. At best, if you are caught you suffer some embarrassment. At worst, if you succeed in your deception your character becomes warped and your sense of values suffers. Almost all lies are harm-ful; some are no less than vicious. 
If you are one type of liar, all your lies are vicious-calcu-latedly, predetern血edly,ecoldly, and advisedly vicious. In short, your lies are so outstandingly hurtful that people gasp in amaze-ment and disgust at hearing them. 
An egregious liar 

In this chapter the ten basic words revolve rather closely around a central core. Each one, however, has a distinct, a unique mean-ing, a special implication. Note the differences. 
TYPE OF LIAR 
1. notoriouse
consummate 
4. inveteratee
S. congenitale

SPECIAL IMPLICATION 

―
famous-0r infamousefor lying; 
tendency to falsify is well-known great skill too far gone to be reformed一 impervious to rehabilitation lying has become a deep-rooted habit lying had very early beginnings-as jf from birth 


6. chronic 
7. pathological 
8.eunconscionable 
9. glibe
10. egregiouse



over and over an irresistible compulsion to Jie--often for no rational reason; lying is a disease lack of regret or remorse great smopthness viciousness of the lies 
These ten expressive adjectives, needless to say, are not re-stricted to lying or liars. Note their general meanings: 
l. notorious 
2. consummate 
3. incorrigible 
4. inveterate 
5. congenital 
6. chronic 

1. pathological 
8. unconscionable 
9. glib 
10. egregious 


well-known for some bad quality―a notorious philanderer .perfect, highly skilled--consummate artistry at the keyboard beyond refonn―an incorrigible optimist long-accustomed, deeply habituated一 an inveterate smoker (this adjective, like notorious, usually has an unfavor-able connotation) happening at or during birth-a congenital deformity going on for a long tiine, or occurring again and again--chronic appendicitis diseased-apathological condition without pangs of conscience-uncon-scionable cruelty to children smooth, suspiciously fluent-a glib witness outstandingly bad or vicious-an egregious error 



With the exception of consummate and congenital, all ten ad-jectives have strongly derogatory implications and are generally used to describe people, characteristics, or conditions we disap-prove of. 




USING THE WORDS 



Can you pronounce the words? 
1 . notorious 

2.oconsummateo
3.oincorrigibleo
4.oinveterateo
5.ocongenitalo
6.ochronico
7.opathologicalo
8.ounconscionableo
9.oglibo
10. egregiouso





Can you work with the words? 
1.onotoriouso
2.oconsummateo
3.oincorrigibleo
4.oinveterateo
5.ocongenitalo
6.ochronico
7.opathologicalo
8.ounconscionableo
9.oglibo
10.oegregiouso


n今TAWR＇一氏匀S kan-SUM勺tin-KAWR'今片balin-VET勺门口bn-JEN'－:i-tal KRON'-ik path＇七LOJ'仑kaloun-KON'-sh千na-baloGLIB a-GREE'-j忑 


a.obeyond reformo
b.ocontinuing a Jong pe-riod of time; recuover rringo
c.odiseasedo
d.ofrom long-standing habito
e.osuspiciously smootho
f.owithout conscience or scru-pieso
g.ooutstandingly bad or viciouso
h.ounfavorably knowno
i.ofrom birtho
j.ofinished. perfect. artistico








Do you undefstand the words?  
I. Do people become notorious for good  YES  NO  
acts?  
2. Is Beethoven considered aconsummate  YES  NO  
musical genius?  
3. Ifacriminal is truly incorrigible, is  YES  NO  
there any point in attempting  
 
rehabilitation?  
 
4. Does aninveterate smoker smoke only  YES  NO  
occasionally?  
5. Isacongenital deformity onethat  YES  NO  
occurslate in life?  
6. Isachronic invalid ill much of the  YES  NO  
time?  
7. Isapathological condition normal and  YES  NO  
healthy?  
8. Ifa person commits anunconscionable  YES  NO  
act of cruelty, is there any regret,  
 
remorse,orguilt?  
9. Isaglib tallcer awkward and hesitant in  YES  NO  
speech?  


KEY: 1-no, 2-yes, 3-no, 4-no, 5-no, 6-yes, 7-no, 8-no, 9-no, 

Can you recall the words? ・
1. 
outstandingly vicious; sobad 1. asto be in aclass by itself 

2
. starting at birth 2. 


3.happeningoverandoveragain; 3. continuing for a long time 




4.awidely and unfavorably knowna4.aN.a(as for antisocial acts,acharacter weaknesses, immoralaor unethical behavior, etc.)a
5.abeyond correctiona5. 
6.asmooth and persuasive;aunusually, almost suspiciously,afluenta
7.along addicted to a habita7. 


8..apperfect in the practice of ana8. art; extremely skillfula

9.aunscrupulous; ent江elyawithouta9.aUaconsciencea

KEY: 1--egregious, 2--congenital, 3--chronic, 4-notorious, 5-in-corrigible, 6-glib, 7-inveterate, 8-consummate, 9-uncon-scionable, ・10-pathological 
Can you use the words? 
As a result of the tests you are taking, you are becoming more and more familiar with these ten valuable and expressive words. Now, as a further check on your learning, write the word that best fits each blank. 
1.aThis person has gambled, day in and day out, for as long asaanyone can remember-gambling bas become a deep-rooteda
habit.a 
1.aAna gamblera 
2.aBorn with a clubfoota 
2.aAa deformitya 

3.aSomeone known the world over for criminal actsa
3.aAacriminala
4.aAn invading army kills, maims, and tortures without mercy,acompunction, or regret.a

4.a. acts of crueltya




5.eThe suspect answers the detective's questions easily, fluently,ealmost too smoothly.e
5.eresponsese
6.eA person reaches the acme of perfection as an actress oreactor.e

6.eAeperformere
7.eNo one can change someone's absurdly romantic attitude to-

ward life.e 
7.eAne romantice 
8.eA mistake so bad that it defies descriptione 
 
8.eAne blundere 

9.. Drunk almost all the time, again and again and again一 periods of sobriety are few and ve可，ve可farebetween 
9.eAealcobolice
10.e・Doctors find a persistent, dangerous infection in the bladdere

10.eAeconditione
KEY: I-inveterate, 2-congenital, 3-notorious, 4-unconscionable, 

SESSION 15 



1.ewell-knowne
"Widely but unfavorably known" is the common definition forenotorious. Just as. a notorious .liar is well-known for unreliable 
statements, so a notorious gambler, a notorio匹thief,eor a notori-


ous killer has achieved a wide reputation for some form of an-tisocial behavior. The noun is notoriety（动－t今RI仁Q-tee).a
The derivation is from Latin notus, known, from which we also get noted. It is an interesting characteristic of some words that a change of syllables can alter the emotional impact. Thus, an ad-mirer of.certain business executives will speak of them as "noted industrialists"; these same people's enemies will call them "notori-ous exploiters."-Similarly, if we admire a man's or a woman's un-worldliness, we refer to it by the complimentary term childlike; but if we are annoyed by the trait, we describe it, derogatively, as 
childish. Change "-lilce" to "-ish" and our emotional tone under-goes a complete reversal. 



2.aplenty of room at the topa
The top of a mountain is called, as you know, the summit, aaword derived from Latin summus, highest, which also gives us the mathematical term sum, as in addition. A consummate artist has reached the very highest point of perfection; and to consum-mate (KON':.sg-m顽）aamarriage, a business deal, or a contract is, etymologically, to bring it to the highest point; that is, to put the final touches to it, to bring it to completion. 
[Note how differently consummate (kgn-SUM勺t),athe,adjec-tive, is pronounced from the verb to co心ummate(KON'一s:i-mayt')]. 

Nouns are formed from adjectives by the addition of the noun suffix -ness: sweet--SWeetness; simple一-simpleness,・aenvious--en-11iousness; etc.aMany adjectives, however, have alternate noun forms, and the 
adjective consummate is one of them. To make a noun out of con-summate, add either -ne:rs or-a勺；aco心ummatenessa(kon-SUM'-gt-n忑）orconsumma守（bn-SUM'仑see).a


Verbs ending in-ate .variably tack on the noun suffix -ion to form nouns: create--creation；印aluate-evaluation;aetc. Can you write the noun form of the verb to consummate? 
158 


3.eno help 

Call'people incorrigible (in-KA WR'－:i-j:i-b:il) if they do any-thing to excess, and if all efforts to correct or reform them are to no avail. Thus, one can be an incorrigible idealist, an incorr.gible criminal, an incorrigible optimist, 
or an incorrigible philanderer. The word derives from Latin co"igo, to correct or set straight, plus the negative prefix in-. (This prefix, depending on the root it precedes, .ay be negative, may intensify the root, as in invaluable, or may mean in.) 
The noun is incorrigibility(in-kawr'.j:i-BIL＇一:i-tee)eor, alter-natively, incorrigibleness. 




4.eveterans 

Inveterate, from Latin vetus, old,* generally indicates disap-proval. Inveterate gamblers have grown old in the habit, etymologically speaking; inveterate drinkers have been imbibing for so. long that they, too, have formed old, well-established habits; and inveterate liars have 
been lying for so long, and their habi岱areeby now so deep-rooted, that one can scarcely remember (the word implies) when they ever told the truth. The noun is inveteracy (in-VET'-;,r-:i-see) or inveterateness. A veteran(VET勺－r:ine),eas of the Armed Forces, grew older 

servin
g the country; otherwise a veteran is an old 
hand at the 
game (and therefore skillful). The word is both a noun and an adjective: a veteran at (or in) swim血nge,etennis, police work, business, negotiations, diplomacy--or a veteran actor, teacher, diplomat, political reformer. 
*e
Latin sene:r, source of senile and senescent, also, you will recall, -meanseold. In inveterate,加 meansein; it is not the ne职ti四 prefixefound. in incor-
rigible. 






5.obirtho

Gre.k genesis, birth or origin, a root we discovered in discuss-ing psychogenic (Chapter 5), is the source of a great many Eng-Iish words. 


Genetics (j今NET'-ilcs)ois the science that treats of the trans-mission of hereditary characteristics from parents to o红spring.oThe scientist specializing in the field is a geneticist (j.NET宅osist), the adjective is genetic (j今NET'-ik).oThe particle in the chromosome of the germ cell containing a hereditary charac-teristic is a gene (JEEN). 
Genealogy (jeen'-ee-AL今jee)ois the study of family trees or ancestral origins (logos, study). The practitioner is a genealogist (jeen'-ee-AL宅jist).oCan you form the adjective? 
. (And can you pronounce it?) 
The genital (GEN＇仑tal),oor sexual, organs are involved in the 
process of conception and birth. The genesis (JEN＇.Q-Sis) of any-
thing-aplan, idea, thought, career, etc.-is its beginning, birth, or origin, and Genesis, the first book of the Old Testament, 
describes the creation, or birth, of the universe. 、 
Congenital is constructed by combining the prefixocon-, with or together, and the root genesis, birth. 
So a congenital defect, deformity, condition, etc. occurs during the nine-month birth process (or period of gestation, to become technical). Hereditary (h千R曰y仑tair'-ee)ocharacteristics, 

the other hand, are acquired at the moment of conception. Thus, on eye color, nose shape, hair texture, and other such qualities are hereditary; they are determined by the genes in the germ ceJis of the mother and father. But a thalidomide baby resulted from the use of the drug by a pregnant woman, s. the deformities were congenital. Congenital is used both literally and figuratively. Literally, the 
word generally refers to some medical deformity or abnormality occurring during gestation. Figuratively, it wildly exaggerates, for effect, the ve可earlyoexistence of some quality: congenital liar, congenital fear of the dark, etc. 


REVI郅OFeETYMOLOGY 
PREFIX, ROOT MEANING 
ENGLISH WORD 
1.enotuseknown 
2. summusehighest 
3.ecorrigoeto correct, set straight 
4.evetuseold 
5.esenexeold 
6.egenesisebirth, origin 
7.elogosescience, study 
8. in-negative prefix 




USING THE WORDS 

Can you pronounce the words? 
1.enotoriety 
2.eto consumate (v.)e
3.econsummaeye
4.econsummatione
5.eincorrigibilitye
6. inveteracye


1. veterane
8. genetics 
9.egeneticist 
10.egenetice
11. genee
12. genealogye
13.egenealogiste
14.egenealogicale
15. genitale
16.egenesis 
17. hereditarye




n6七RI气teeKON宅mayt'ebn-SUM'-;,-see kon气均－MAY'-sh;inin-kawr'今片BIL＇一3－teeein-VET'心今r;i-seeVET'－;i-r;in j.i-NET-iks. j.1-NET'-.1-sist j;i-NET'-ik JEEN jei: -nee-AL'-;i-jee jei:-nee-AL勺－jistjee'-nee-;i-LOJ'心－kolJEN'－;i-t;il JEN'－今siseh3-RED'-9-tair'-ee 








Do you understand the words?  
1.tDoes notoriety usually come tot YES  NO  
perpetrators of mass murders?  
2.tIs the product of a consummately -- YES  NO  
skillful counterfeiter likely to be takent 
as genuine?t 
3. Is incorrigibility in a criminal a signt YES  NO  
that rehabilitation is possible?t 
4.tIs a genetici.vt interested in yourt YES  NO  
parents'characteristics?t 
5. Does invetera守tsuggesttthat a habit ist YES  NO  
new?t 

Can you work with the words? 

1. notorietyt
2.tto consummate (v.)


、 
3.tconsummacyt
4. incorrigibilityt
5.tinveteracyt
6. geneticst
7. genealogyt
8.tgenitalt
9. genesist
10. hereditaryt




a. state of artistic heightt
b.tstate of being long establishedtin a habit 
c.tbeginning, origint
d. science of heredity 
e. bring to completion; top offt
f. study of ancestryt
g.treferring to characteristicstpassed on to offspring by par-entst
h.treferring to reproduction, ortto the reproductive or sexualtorganst
i. ill famet
j.tparticle that transmits hered-itary characteristicst




6. When you con邓mmate a deal, do you  YES  NO  
back out of it?  
7. Is a veteran actress long experienced at  YES  NO  
her art?  
8. Do genes determine heredity?  YES  NO  
9. Is a genealo肚st interested in your  YES  NO  
family origins?  
10. Are the genital organs used in  YES  NO  
reproduction?  
11. Is the genesis of something the final  YES  NO  
point?  
 
12. Are hereditary characteristics derived  YES  NO  
from parents?  

KEY: 1-yes, 2-yes, 3.no, 4-yes, 5-no, 6-no, 7-yes, 8-yes, 9-yes, 10-yes, 11-no, 12-yes 

Can you recall the words? 
1. sexual; reproductive 
1. G. 
2. to complete 2. 
3. wide and unfavorable reputation 
4. particle in the chromosome of 4. G. a cell that transmits a characteristic from parent to offspring 



5. completion 5. 
6. inability to be reformed 6. 
7. the science that deals with the transmission. of characteristics from parents to children 
8. referring to a quality or . 8. H characteristic that is inherited (adj.) 
9. be2i nn i 9. G.

. beginning or origin 



10.estudent of family roots ore 10.  
ongmse 
11.eheight of skill or artistrye 1 1.  
or  
12.etransmitted by hereditye 12.eG.e 
13.equality of a habit that has beene 13.e 
established over many yearse ore 
14.ea person long experienced at ae 14.eYe 
profession, art, or businesse 
15.epertaining to a study of familye 15.eG.e 
origins (adj.)e 


KEY: I-genital, 2-consummate, 3-:notoriety, 4-gene, 5-consum-mation, 6-incorrigibility, 7-genetics, 8-hereditary, 9-gen-esis, 10-genealogist, 11-consummacy or consummateness, 12-genetic, -13-inveteracy or inveterateness, 14-veteran,e15-genealogicale
・ 
(End of Session 15) 
SESSION 16 
ORIGINS AND RELATED WORDS 
1.eof time and placee
A chronic liar lies constantly, again and again and again; aechronic invalid is ill time after time, frequently, repeatedly. The 
d
derivation of the woreis Greek chronos, time. The noun form is chronicity（氐NIS'七tee).eAn anachronism（今NAK'－mniz如）isesomeone or something out of血ee,eout of date, belonging to a different era. either earlier 




or later. (The prefix ， ana-like a-, is negative.) The adjective is 
anachronous(今NAK心血）oreanachronistic（今nak'七NIS'-tik). 

Wander along Fifty-ninth Street and Central Park in Manhattan some Sunday. You will see horse-drawn carriages with top-hatted coachmen-aevestige of the l 800s. Surrounded by twentieth-cen-tury motorcars and modern skyscrapers, these romantic vehicles of a bygone era are anachronous. 
Read a novel in which a scene is supposedly taking place in the nineteenth century and see one of the characters turning on a TV set. An anachronism! 

Your friend talks, thinks, dresses, and acts as if he were living in the time of Shakespeare. Another anachronism! 

Science fiction is deliberately anachronous一itedeals with phe-nomena, gadgetry, accomplishments far off (possibly) in the fu-ture. 
An anachronism is out of time,・ something out of place is incon-gruous (in-KONG'-grtm-:is), a word combining the negative prefix in一，theeprefix con-, with or together, and a Latin verb meaning to agree or co"-e'Spond. 

Thus, it is incongruous to wear a sweater and slacks to a formal 
wedding; it is anachronous to wear the wasp waist, conspicuous 
bustle, or powdered wig of the eighteenth century. The noun form 
of incongruous is incongruity (in-k:ing-GR改），心tee).e
Chronological (kron..g..LQJ'，如1),ein.correct time order, comes from chronos. To tell a story chronologically is to relate the events in the time order of their occurrence. Chro叩logye(kr:i-NOL'-:i-jee) is the science of time order and the accurate dating of events (logos, science)一;theeexpert in this field is a chronol
-ogist（氐NOL'-:i-jist)-orea list of events in the time order in which they have occurred or will occur. 
A chronometer（氐NOM'今tar),ecombining chronos with met-ron, measurement, is a highly accurate timepiece, especially one used on ships. Chronometry（氐NOM'心－tree)eis the measure-ment of time--the adjective is chronometric (kron'今MET'-rik).e
Add the prefix syn-, together, plus the verb suffix -ize, to chronos, and you have constructed synchronize (SIN＇士m－n记），eetymologically to time together, or to move, happen, or cause to happen, at the same time or rate. If you and your friend synchro-



血eeyour watches, you set them at the same time. If you synchro-nize the activity of your arms and legs, as in swimming, you mov. them at the time or rate. The adjective is synchronous 
(SIN'-kr:i-n:is); the same noun form of 
the verb synchronize is syn-chroniz.ation (sin'-kr今n:i-ZAY'-sh:in). 

2.edisease, suffering, feeling 
Pathological is diseased (a pathological condition)―this mean-
Pathology (p::i-THOL'－今jee)eis the science or study of disease -its nature, cause, cure, etc. However, another・ meaning of theenoun ignores logos, and pathology may be any morbid, diseased,eor abnormal physical condition or conditions; in short, simply dis-ease, as in "This case involves so many kinds of pathology thateseveral different specialists are working on it." 
A pathologist（产THOL'七jist)eis an expert who examines tis-sue, often by autopsy or biopsy, to diagnose disease and interpret the abnormalities in such tissue that may be caused by specific dis-eases. 
Pathos occurs in some English words with the additional mean-ing of feeling. If you feel or suffer with someone, you are sympa-thetic (sim-p今THET'-ik)-sym-is a respelling before the letter p of the Greek prefix syn-, with or together. The noun is sympathy (SIM'一产thee),ethe verb sympathize (SIM'-p::i-thTz). Husbands, for example, so the story goes, may have sympathetic labor pains when their wives are about to deliver. 
The prefix anti-, you will recall, means against. If you experi-ence antipathy (an-TIP'-::i-thee) to people or things, you feel against them―you feel strong dislike or hostility. The adjective is antipathetic (an'－氐p::i-THET'-ik),eas in "an antipathetic reac-ing of the word ignores the root logos, science, study. 
tion to an authority figure." But you may have no feeling at all
―just indifference, lack of any interest, emotion, or response, complete listlessness, especially when some reaction is normal or expected. Then you are apathetic (ap-::i-THET'-ik); a-, as you know, is a negative prefix. The noun is apathy (AP'今thee),eas in voter apathy, student apathy, etc. 






On the otbex: band, you may be so sensitive or perceptive that you not only share the feelings of another, but you also identify with those feelings, in fact experience them yourself as if momen-tarily you were that other person. What you have, then, is em-pathy (EM'一产thee); you empath比ee(EM'-pa-tbiz'), you are empathetic (em-pa-TIIET'-ik), or, to use an alternate adjective, empathic (em-PATH'-ik). Em-is a respelling before the letter p of the Greek prefix en-, in. 
Someone is pathetic（产TIIET'-ik)ewho is obviously suffering -Such a person may arouse sympathy or pity (or perhaps an-tipathy?) in you. A pathetic story is about suffering and, again, is likely to arouse sadness, sorrow, or pity.e. 
Some interesting research was done many years ago by Dr. J.B. Rhine and bis associates at Duke University on extrasensory per-ception; you will find an interesting account of Rhine's work in his book The Reach of the Mind. What makes it possible for two peo-ple separated by miles of space to communicate with each other without recourse to messenger, telephone, telegraph, or postal service? It can be done, say the believers in telepathy（ta-LEP勺-thee), also called mental telepathy. though they do not yet admit to knowing how. How 
can one person read the mind of another? Simple--by being telepathic (tel－今PATH'-ik),ebut no -one can explain the chemistry or biology of it. Telepathy is built by com-bining pathos, feeling, with the prefix tele-, distance, the same prefix we found in telephone, telegraph, telescope. 
Telepathic (tel-a-PATIi＇一ik)ecommunication occurs when peo-pie can feel each other's thoughts from a distance, when they have ESP. 

REVIEW OF ETYMOLOGY 
PREFIX, ROOT, SUFFIX MEANING ENGLISH WORD 


1.echronosetime 
2.eana-, a-negative prefix 
3.econ-with, together 




4.oin-negative prefix 
5. logososcience, study 
6. metronomeasurement 
7. syn-, sym-with , together 
8. -ize verb suffix 
9. pathosodisease, suffering, feeling 
10.oanti-against 
11. en-, em-in 
12.otele-distance 




USING THE WORDS 
Can you pronounce the words? Ill 

1.
chronici句o
km-NIS'-Q-tee 

2. anachronism凶AK屯niz-Qmo3. anachronous今NAK'－ro-n3So
4.
a,亿chronisticoQ-nak'仑NIS'-tiko5. incongruous 
in-KONG'-gr叨－3So

6.oincongruity 
in'如ng-GR仅跺teeo
7.ochronologicalkmn宅LOJ'七kQlo
8.ochronology\NOL勺－jeeo
9. chronologist 
氐NOL今jisto
10. chronometer k江NOM'一吐ro
11.ochronometryk.NOM宅treeo
12.ochronometric kron'－a-MET'-rik 

i
13.o'synchronize SIN'-km-niz'o-14. synchronizationosin'-kr:i-na-ZAY'-shQno
15.osynchronousoSIN＇一k.n忑o

Can you pronounce the words? Ill) 
1.opathology P亡THOL'-:i-jeeo
2.opathologistop:i-THOL'今jisto
3.osympathyoSIM＇一pa-thee







4.osympathetico
5. sympathizeo
6.oantipathyo
7.oantipathetico
8.oapathyo
9.oapathetico
10.oempathyo
11.oempathizeo
12.oempathetico
13.oempathico
14.opathetico
15.otelepathyo
16.otelepathico




Can you work with the words? (I) 
1.ochronicityo
2.oanachronismo
3.oincongruityo
4.ochronologyo
5.ochronometero
6.ochronometryo
7.osynchronizationo
8.opathologyo
9.osympathyo




sim一产THET'-ikoSIM'-p己th讫oan-TIP'-a-thee an'－ta-pa-THET'-ik AP'－今theeoap-今THET'-ikoEM'-pa-thee EM'于－thI云oem-pa-THET'-ik em-PATH＇一ikop今THET'-ikot今LEP'-a-theeotel'畴今PATH'-iko
a.osomething, or state of being,oout of placeo
b.otimepiece; device that meas-ures time very accuratelyo
c.ocondition of continual or re-peated recurrenceo


ing to occur, at the same timeo
e.ocalendar of events in orderoof occurrenceo
f.osomething, or someone,.outoof timeo
g.omeasuremeht of timeo
h.oa sharing or understandingoof another's feelingo
i.oESP; communication from aodistanceo







KEY: 1--c,2-f, 3-a, 4女5-b,o6飞，7--d，8-j,o9-h, 10-i 

Can you work with the words? (111 
1.epathologiste
2.eantipathye

a.eidentification with another'sefeelingse
b.eshare another's feelings soestrongly as to experienceethose feelings oneselfe
c. out of timee

3. apathye
4. empathy 
d. one who examines tissue.toediagnose diseasee

5. synchronizeee: occurring at the same time or rate 

6.eempathizee
7. anachronouse
8.eincongruouse
9. synchronouse
10. pathetice

f.erelating to extrasensory per-ceptione
g.esuffering; arousing sympathyeor pitye
h.elack of feeling; non-respon-sivenesse
i.eout of placee
j.ehappen, or cause to happen,e



KEY: 1-d,2:...k, 3-h, 4-a, 5才，6-b,e7-c, 8-i, 9--e,10-g, 11-f 

Do you unders.tand the words? 
1.eAre these dates in chronological order?eYES NO 
1492, 1941, 1586e・2. Is pathology the study of healthy tissue?eYES NO 
3.eIs telepathic communication carried 
oneYES 
NO by telephone?e
4.eDoes a sympathetic response show 
aneYES NO understanding of another's feelings?e
5.eIs one antipathetic to things, ideas, oreYES NO people one finds agreeable? 
6. Do apathetic people react strongly? YES NO 










1. Does an empathic response show  YES  NO  
identification with the feelings of  
another?  
8. Is a swimsuit incongruous attire at a  YES  NO  
formal ceremony?  
9. Is an anachronistic attitude up to date?  YES  NO  
10. Are synchronous movements out of  YES  NO  
time with one another?  

KEY: 1-no, 2-no, 3-no, 4-yes, 5-no, 6-no, 7-yes, 8-yes, 9-no, 10-no 

Can you recall the words? 

1. in order of time 1. C 
2. out of place 2. 

3., 4. out of time (two forms) 3. 4. 
5. something, or state of being, 5. out of place 
・ 

6. lack of feeling 6. 
7. measurer of time 7. 
・ 

8. study of disease 
9. ・ feeling of hostility or dislike 9. 
10. to occur, or cause to occur, at 10. the same time or rate 
11. evoking sorrow or pity 11. P 
12. something out of time 12. 13.. state of recurring again and 13. 

again 
14.extransenso可perception 
15. one who examines tissue to diagnose disease 
16. identification with the feelings 16. of another 
17. happening at the same time or 17. 



171 
18.oskillful at thought transferenceowithout sensory communicationo19. calendar of events in time  18.oT.o19.  
sequence 20.oreferring to the measuremento 20.  

KEY: 1--(:hronological, 2-incongruous, 3, 4-anachronous, anach-ronistic, 5-incongruity, 6-apathy, 7--(:hronometer, 8-pa-thology, 9-antipathy, 10-synchronize, 11-pathetic, 12-anachronism, 13.hronicity, 14-telepathy, 15-pa-thologist, 16-empathy, 17-synchronous, 18-telepathic,o19-chronology, 20-chronometrico

SESSION 17 

ORIGINS AND RELATED WORDS 
1.oknowingo

Psychopaths commit antisocial and unco瓜cionableoacts-,-theyoare not troubled by conscience, guilt, remorse, etc. over what they have done. 
Unco瓜cionableoand co心cienceoare related in derivation一－theofirst word from Latin scio, to know, the second from Latin scie巫oknowing, and both using the prefix con-, with, together. 

Etymologically, then, your conscience is your knowled驴withoa moral sense of right and wrong; if you are皿conscionable,oyour conscience is not (un-) working, or you have no conscience. The 


noun form is unconscionableness or unconscionability (un-kon'-sha-na-BIL＇今tee).oConscious, also from con-plus scio, is knowledge or awareness of one's emotions or sensations, or of what's happening around 
・'o
one. Sci印ce,ofrom sciens, is systematized knowledge as opposed, for example; to belief, faith, intuition, or guesswork. 
Add .atin omnis, all, to sciens, to construct omniscient (om-NISH勺nt),oall-knowing, possessed of infinite knowledge. The noun is omniscience (om-NISH勺ns).o
Add the prefix pre-, before, to sciens, to construct prescient (PREE'-shant)―knowing about events before they occur, i.e., psychic, or possessed of unusual powers of prediction. The noun is prescience (PREE'-shans). 

And, 
finally, add the negative prefix ne-to sciens to produce nescient (NESH'-:int), not knowing, or ignorant. Can you, by analogy with the previous two words, write the noun form of nes-cient?o. ((Can you pronounce it?) 





2.ofool some of the people...o


Glib is from an old English root that means slippery. Glib liarsoor glib talkers are smooth and slippery;_they have ready answers, fluent tongues, a pe皿asiveoair..,....but, 
such is the implication of the word, they fool only the most 
nescient, for their smoothness lacks血cerityoand conviction. 
The noun is glibness. 

3.oherds and flockso
Egregious (remember the pronunciation?今GR邸＇一jas)ois fromoLatin grex, gregis, herd or flock. An egregious lie, act, crime, mis-take, etc. is so exceptionally vicious that it conspicuously 
stands out (e-, a shortened form of the prefix ex-, out) from the herd or 彻ckoof other bad things. 

The noun is egregiousness(今GREE＇一jas-n忑）．oA person who enjoys companionship, who, etymologically, likes to be with the herd, who reaches out for friends and is happiest 


173 


when surrounded by people--such a person is gregarious (gr千 GAIR'-ee-as). Extroverts are of course gregarious-they prefer human con-tact, conversation, laughter, interrelationships, to solitude. The suffix -ness, as you know, can be added to an adjective to construct a noun form. Write the noun for gregarious: 
Add the prefix con-, with, together, to grex, gregis, to get the verb congregate (KONG'-gra-gayt'); add the prefix se-, apart, to build the verb segregate (SEG'-rg..gayt'); add the prefix ad-, to, toward (ad-changes to ag-before a root starting with g一），toecon-struct the verb aggregate (AG-ra-gayt'). 
Let's see what we have. When people gather together in a herd or flock, they (write the verb) The noun is congregation (con(-gr今GAY'-shan),eone of the meanings of which is a religious节ock."e
Put people or things apart from the herd, and you (write the verb) them. Can you construct the noun by adding the suitable noun suffix? 
Bring individual items to or toward the herd or flock; and you (write the verb) them. What is the noun form of this verb? 
The verb aggregate also means to come together to or toward the herd, that is, to gather into a mass or whole, or by extension, to total or amount to. So aggregate, another noun form, pro-nounced AG'-n冯忒，iesea group or mass of individuals considered as a whole, a herd, or a flock, as in the phrase''people in the
" 
aggregate 
REVIEW OF ETYMOLOGY 
PREFIX,  ROOT,  
SUFFIX  MEANING  ENGLISH WORD  
1. grex, gre.在Se herd, flock  
2.ee-, ex- out  


3. -nessenoun suffix 
4. con-with, together 
5. ad-, ag-
to, toward 
6.eun-negative prefix 
7. scioe
to know 
8. sciens knowing 
9.eomnis． all 



10. pre-before 
11.ene-negative prefix 
12.ese-apart 
13.e-ionenoun suffix added to verbs 




USING THE WORDS 

Can you pronounce the words? 
1. unconscionabilityeun-kon'-sh今n千BIL＇-a-teee
2.eomniscienteom-NISH'-ant 
3 . omnisciencee
om-NISH'-ans 
4.eprescientePREE'一shante
5. presciencee
PREE'-shans 
6.enescienteNESH'-ant 
7. nesc1enceeNESH'-ans 
8.eglibne.邓 GLIB'-nas 


9.. 1egregiousnesse.GREE'-jas-nas 
10. gregariousegrn-GAIR'-ee-as 
11. gregariousnesse
12.econgregatee
13. congregatione
kong-gr.GAY'-shan 
14.esegregateeSEG'-rn-gayt' 
15.esegregationeseg-r.GA Y'-shan 
16.eaggregate (v.)eAG'-r今gayte
17. aggregate (n.) AG'-.-驴te
18.eaggregationeag于rn-GAY'-shan 






Can you work with the words? 

1. unconscionability a.. ignorance 
2. ommsc1enceeb. outstanding badness or vi一 
c10usnesse
3.eprescienceec.ereligious group; a massingetogethere
4. nescienceed.etotal; mass; wholee
5.eglibnessee. exclusion from the herd; a setting apart 
6. egregiousness f.einfinite knowledge 
7.egregariousness g.efriendliness; enjoyment of mixing with peoplee
8.econgregationeh.elack of consciencee
9. segregationei.esuspiciously smooth fluencye
10.eaggregate (n.)ej.eforeknowledge 



KEY: 1-h, 2-f, 3寸，4-a,e5-i, 6-b, 7-g, 8-c, 9--e，10--d 
＼  
Do you understand the words?  
1. Is unco"nscionability one of the signs of  YES  NO  
the psychopath'/e 
2.eCan anyone be truly omniscient?  YES  NO  
3. Does a prescient fear indicate somee YES  NO  
knowledge of the future?e 
-.ii-. Is nescience a result of learning?  YES  
5. Does glibness make someone sounde YES  NO  
sincere and trustworthy?e 
6.eIs egregio血essean admirable quality?e YES  NO  
7.eDo gregarious people enjoy parties?  YES  NO  
8.Do spectators con钉egateeat sportse YES  NO  
events?e 
9. Do we often segregate hardenede YES  NO  
criminals from the rest of society?e 


10. Is an aggregation of problems a whole YES NO 

KEY: 1-yes, 2-no, 3-yes, 4-no, 5-no, 6-no, 7-yes, 8-yes, 9-yes, 10-y:es 

companionship 

2. 
ignorant 2. N. 

3. 
state of not being held back . 3. U. from antisocial behavior by or U. one's conscience 

4. 
having knowledge of an event 4. P before it occurs (adj.) 

5. 
a religious .'flock" 5. 

6. 
a total, whole, or mass 6. or 

7. 
to separate from the rest 7. 

8. 
suspiciously smooth fluency 8. G. 


9. 0. 10.
10. to come together into a group or mass 
KEY: 1-gregarious, 2-nescient, 3-unconscionability or uncon-scionableness, 4-prescient, 5--congregation, 6-aggregate or aggregation, 7-segregate, 8-glibness, 9-omniscient, 10--con-gregate 

CHAPTER REVIEW 
A. Do you recognize the words? 
1. Highly skilled: 
(a) consummate, (b) inveterate, (c) notorious 

177 




2.eBeyond reform: 
(a)einveterate, (b) incorrigible, (c) glibe
3.eDating from birth:e
(a) inveterate, (b) congenital, (c) psychopathice
4. Outstandingly bad:e
(a) egregious, (b) unconscionable, (c) chronice
5.eScience of heredity:e

(a)epathology, (b) genetics, (c) orthopedicse
6.eOut of time:e

(a)eincongruous, (b) anachronous, (c) synchronouse
7.eStudy of disease: 
(a)epathology, (b) telepathy, (c) antipathye
8.eFond of company, friends, group activities, etc.:e
(a)eapathetic, (b) gregarious, (c) chronologicale
9. Indifferent:e
(a)eantipathetic, (b) pathetic, (c) apathetice
10.eLong accustomed in habit:e

(a)eincorrigil>le, {b) notorious, (c) inveterate 
11.eStudy of family ancestry: 
(a)egenealogy, (b) genetics, (c) genesis 
12.eTo complete, finish, top off: 
(a)esynchronize, (b) consummate, (c) empathizee

13. Accurate timepiece: 
(a) anachronism, (b) chronology, (c) chronometer 
14.eIdentification with the feelings of another:e
(a)esympathy, (b) apathy, (c) empathye
15. Thought transference; extrasensory perception: 
(a)etel叩athy,e(b) empathy, (c) omnisciencee
16.eIgnorance:e
(a) omniscience, (b) prescience, (c) nesciencee
17.eTo gather into a group: 
(a)econgregate, (b) segregate, (c) synchronizee




KEY: 1-a, 2-b, 3-b, 4-a, 5-b, 6-b, 7-a，8-b, 9-c,10-c, 11-a, 12-b, 13-c,14-c, 15-a,16-c, 17-a 


8.eCcin you recognize roots?e
ROOTeMEANING EXAMPLE 
1.enotusenotorious 2，，皿mmusesummit 
3.ecorrigoeincorrigible 
4.evetuseveteran 
5.esenexse正lee
6. gene志econgenital 
7.elogosegenealogy 
8.echronosechronic 
9.emetronechronometer 
10.epathosepathology pathetic empathy 
11.egrex, gregis gregarious 
12.escioeunconscionable 
13.escie邓 prescience 
14.eomniseomniscient 

KEY: 1-known, _2-highest, 3-to correct, set straight, 4--old, 5-oId, 6-birth, 7-science, study, 8-time, 9-measurement,e10-disease, suffering, feeling, 11-herd, flock, 12-to know,e13-knowing, 14-alle

TEASER QUESTIONS FOR THE A从ATEUR ETYMOLOGIST 
1.e"She was one of many notables who attended the conven-tion." Recognizing that the italicized word is built on the root notus, can you define the noun notable in the context of known? 
2.eNotify and notice derive from the same root. Can you defineethese two words, again in the context of known? Noti坏e


.eNotice:e


also of simplify. clarify, liquefy, etc.) 
3.oYou are familiar with the roots chronos and graphein. Sup-pose you came across the word chronograph in your reading. Can 
4.oRecognizing the root genesis in the verb generate, howo
5.oRecognizing the root omnis in omnipotent and omnipresent,o



can you define the words? Omni'f}otent: Omnipresent: Recalling how we formed a noun from the adjective omniscient, 

write the noun forms of: Omnipotent: Omnipresent: 

6.oThink of the negative prefix in anachronism,・ think next ofothe noun aphrodisiac. Can you construct a word for that which re-duces or eliminates sexual desire? 
(Answers in Chapter 18) 



FOUR LASTING BENEFITS 

You know by now that it is easy to build your vocabulary if you work diligently and intelligently. Diligence is important一toocome to the book occasionally is to learn new words and ideas in an 



aimless fashion, rather than in the continuous way that charac-terizes the natural, uninterrupted, intellectual growth of a child. (You will recall that children are top experts in increasing their vocabulari邸）Andean intelligent.approach is crucial一newewords can be completely understood and permanently remembered only as symbols of vital ideas, never if memorized in long lists of iso-lated forms. 
If you have worked diligently and intelligently, you have done much more than merely learned a few hundred new words. Actu-ally, I needn't tell you what else you've accomplished, since, if you really have accomplished it, you can feel it for yourself; but it may be useful if I verbalize the feelings you may have. 

In addition to learning the meanings, pronunciation, back-ground, and use of 300-350 valuable words, you have: 
1.eBegun to sense a change in your intellectual atmosphere.e(You have begun to do your thinking with many of the words, with many of the ideas behind the words. You have begun to use the words in your speech and writing, and have become alert to their appearance in your reading.) 
2.eBegun to develop a new interest in words as expressions ofeidear. 
3. Begun to be aware of the new words you hear and that youesee in your reading. 
4.eBegun to gain a new feeling for the relationship betweenewords. (For you realize that-many words are built on roots from other languages and are related to other words which derive from the same roots.) 





Now, suppose we pause to see how successful your learning has been. In the next chapter, I offer you a comprehensive test on the first part of your work. 
(End of Session 17) 



181 



8 

HOW TO CHECK YOUR PROGRESS Comprehensive Test I 




If you have worked diligently thus far, you have: 
1. Become acquainted, orperhaps reacquainted, with approxi一 mately 300-350 expressive 
2. Learnedscoresof important Latin and Greek prefixes, roots, and suffixes-

3. Set up valuable habits of self-discipline and self-directed leaming-
4. Exploredyourattitudes tow印igrammar and current usage, meanwhile erasing any confusion you may once have felt about specific problems of correctness in your use of 



l 
words-5.And :fina, 
taken・good, long steps toward your ultimate 
the development of a better, richer, more 


(Bear in mind that without careful and periodic review, a significant amoun. of learning is lost.) Methods of scoring your achievement on this test, and the meaning of your results, will be explained at the end of the chap-



etymology ROOT EXAMPLE 
1. 
ego egoism 

2. 
misein misanthrope 

3. 
gamos bigamy 

4. 
gyne gynecology 

5. 
derma dermatology 

6. 
orthos orthodontia 

7. 
psyche psychotic 

8. 
neuron neurology 

9. 
logos biology 

10. 
bios biopsy 1 L apsis, optikos autopsy, optical 




neuralgia 
14. 
pedis pedestrian 

15. 
paidos (ped-) pediatrician 

16. 
demos democracy 


11. oculus oculist 
18. iatreia podiatrist optometrist 

12. 
algos 

13. 
agogos 




19. 
metron 

20. 
geras 

21. 
soma 

22. 
pathos 

23. 
odontos 

24. 
pous, podos 

25. 
cheir (chiro-) chirography 


183 



ROOT 
more etymology"1.rapheing2.kallos3.pgye4.kakos5.senex6.anthropos1.astron8.nautes.o9ge (ge-)10.zoion11.lingua12.philein13.biblion14.autos15.soci匹16.匹no17.匹summ18.vetua19.isenesg20.chronos21.pathos22.grex,gise歹23.sciens24.omnis25: nomos
MEANING EXAMPLE geolPhiladelphia zodiac bilingual biblgranastronomy aphothropiogophile oy logy ology calligrapher callipygian cacophony senescent 


autonomous asocial notorious consummate 
inveterate congenital ronichcopemathyeousgregiprescient 

metronome 

Ill 
1.egoistic-al呻tico
2.omisanthropic-philanthropic .o
misogam3.ousgous--沁yoam4.dexterous-skillful5.sinister--threatening6.optiCal---'-viSUal7.notorious--infamouso
sssssss




8. consummate (adj.）一unskilled 
sss ooo'9. chronic-acute 
10. glib-halting s o
11. ophthalmologist―oculist ss
12. geriatric-pediatric 
13. endodontist-exodontist 

oooooo
sssssss
15. astronaut--cosmonaut 
16. biopsy一autopsy 


18. congenital一hereditary 
19.
veteran一”old hand" 


20. anachronous--timely 
ooo 


matching 
I n 


1. dislikes women 
2. is pathologically self-interested 
3. studies the development of the human race 
4. is an expert on insects 

5. collects books 
6. mounts and stuffs animal skins 
7. is an eye doctor 
8. is a student of linguistics 

a. entom_ologist 
b. taxidermist 
c. egomaniac 

d. bibliophile 
e. ophthalmologist 
f. psychopath 
h. anthropologist 



9. has "split off''from reality 
10. commits antisocial acts without guilt or pangs of conscience 

more matching 

I 
1. delivers babies 
2. treats female ailments 


i. 
psychotic 
j. misogynist 
a. pediatrician 
b. cardiologist 

11 





3.streats infantssc.spsychiatrists
4.streats skin diseasessd.spodiatrists
5.streats skeletal deformitiesse.sdermatologists
6.sis a heart specialistsf._ periodontists
7.streats mental or emotionalsg.sobstetriciansdisturbancess
8.streats disorders of thesh.sneurologistsnervous systems

9.streats minor ailments ofsi.sorthopedists-thesfeets
10.streats ailments of thesj.sgynecologistsgumss
VI recall a word 
1.sruthless; without consciences
1.s
Us
2.ssuspiciously fluent or smooths2.sGs
3.soutstandingly bad; viciouss3.s
・ 

4.sout of places4.s
5.sstudy of the family tree;s5.sG.sspecialty of tracing ancestrys
6.sscience of hereditys. 6. G.s
7.sin correct order of times7. 
8.ssocially awkwards8.sG.s
9.srecord of heart actions9.s

10.equally skill(u1面thsboth thes10.sright and left hands
11.ssocial scientist who deals withs11.sGsthe problems of agings
12.sextrasensory perceptions
12.sT.s
13.sbranch of dentistry specializingsin the care of children's teeths
14.sblood-pressure apparatuss
15.sgrowing old (adj.)s
16.spalm readers
17. that which arouses sexuals



desire 18. representation of the wholes
19.sdiseased; pertaining to thestudy of disease("让）




20.emeasurement of timee20.eCe
21.ehostility; strong dislike;e21.eaversione
22.eto occur, or cause to occur, ate.e22. the same time or ratee
23.eignorante23.eN.e
24.eknowledge of an occurrencee24.eP.ebeforehande
25.eenjoying being with the herd;e25.eGeliking companionshipe
26.eto identify strongly with thee26. feelings of anot.ere
・e

27.einstrument to measuree27. B.eatmospheric pressuree
28.eto separate from the herde28.e
29.epossessed of shapely buttockse29.e
30.eugly, illegible handwritinge30.e



KEY: A correct answer counts one point. Score your points for each part of the test, then add for a total. 
I 
1-1, self, 2-to hate, 3-marriage, 4-woman, 5一skin,e6-straight,ecorrect, 7-mind, soul, spirit, 8-nerve, 9-science, study, 10-life,e11-view, sight, vision, 12-pain, 13-leading, 14-foot, 15-child,e16-people, 17-eye, 18-medical healing, 19-measurement, 20-oIdeage, 21-body, 22-disease, 23-tooth, 24-foot, 25-hande
II Your score: 、 

1-to write, 2-beauty, 3-buttock, 4-harsh, ugly, bad, 5-o1d,e6-mankind, 7-star, 8-sailor, 9-earth, 10-animal, 11-tongue,e
.2-to love, 13-book, 14 .. ..:self, 15-companion, 16-known, 17-high-est, 18-oId, 19-birth(beginning, origin), 20-time, 21-feeling,e22-herd, flock, 23-knowing, 24-all, 25-Jaw, order, arrangemente


Yomscore: 


m 
l-O,2-0, 3-0,,4--S, 5--S,6-S, 7--S,,8-0, 9-0,10--0, 11-S,,12-0,13-0,14-0, 15--S,16-0,17--S，18-0,19--S，20--0,
Your score: 
IV 

1-j,2--c,3-h,4--a, S-d,6-b,7-e,8-g, 9-i, 10-f,Your score: 
V 
1-g,2-j, 3-a,4-e, 5-i, 6-b, 7--c,8-h,9-d,10-f 
Your score: 

VI 
1-unconscionable, 2-glib, 3-egregious, 4--incongruous, S-ge
neal-ogy, 6-genetics, 7-chronological, 8-gauche, 9-cardiogram, 10-ambidextrous, 11-gerontologist, 12-telepathy, 13-pedo-dontia, 14--sphygmomanometer, IS-senescent, 16--chiromancer,,17-aphrodisiac, 18-epitome, 19-pathological, 20-cbroriometry,,21-antipathy, 22-s.chronize, 23-nescient, . 24--prescience,,25-gregarious, 26-empathize, 27-barometer, 28-segregate,,29-callipygian, 30-cacography,
Your score: 
Your total score: 
Significance of Your Total Score: 
100-120: Masterly work; you are ready to move right along.,80-99: Good work; this review was useful to you.,65-79: Average work; you're getting a good deal out of your,
study, but perhaps you should review thoroughly 
after each session. 50-64: Barely acceptable; worlc harder.,
35-49: Poor; further review is suggested befoi;e you go on.,

0-34: You can do much better if you really try; continue with,firmer resolve and more determination. 



188 




PART TWO 







9 


HOW TO TALK ABOUT ACTIONS 



(Sessio邓19-23) 

What verb means to: 
. belittle? 

. be purposely confusing? 
. tickle someone's fancy? 
. flatter fulsomely? 
. prohibit some food or activity? 
. make unnecessary? 
. work against?





.spread sl"认er? 

.give implicit forgiveness for a misdeed? 
. change hostility to friendliness? 









SESSION 19 

Verbs are incalculably useful to you. 

Every sentence you・ think, say, read, or write contains an im-plied or expressed-verb, for. it is. the verb that carries the action, the movement池eeforce of your ideas. 
As a young child, 
you used verbs fairly early. Your first words, of course, were probably nouns, as you iden-tified the things or people around you. 
Mama, Dada, doll, baby, bottle, etc. perhaps were the first standard syllables you uttered, for naming concrete things or real persons is the initial step in the development of language. 
Soon there came the ability to express intangible ideas, and then you began to use simple verbs--go, stop, st叮，want,eeat, sleep, etc. 
As you gained maturity, your verbs expressed ideas 
of greater and greater comple:xity; as an adult you can describe tlie most in-volved actions in a few simple syllables―if you have a good store of useful verbs at your command. 
The richer and more extensive your vocabulary of verbs, the more accurately and expressively you can communicate your un-derstanding of actions, reactions, attitudes, and emotions. 
Let's be specific. 

IDEAS 1.eplaying it downe

Ready to go back thirty or more years? Consider some post-World War IT American p.litical history: Harry Truman couldn't. win the 1948 election. The pollsters 函deso, the Republicans heartily agreed, even the Democrats, 



some in high places, believed it. Mr. Truman himself was perhaps the only voter in the country who was not entirely convinced. Came the first Tuesday after 
the first Monday in November一 well,if you were one of those who stayed up most of the night lis-tening to the returns, and then kept your ear to the radio most of the next day, you recall how you reacted to the unique Truman triumph. 

It was no mean accomplishment, thought many people. Pure ac-cident, said others. If one out of twelve voters in a few key states had changed his ballot, Harry could have gone back to selling ties, one Republican apologist pointed out. It wasn't anything Truman did, said another; it was what Dewey didn't do. No credit to Truman, said a third; it was the farmers-or labor---0r the Re-publicans-who hadn't bothered to vote-or the ingenious mis-
counting of ballots. No credit to Truman,血isteda fourth; it was Wallace's candidacy―it was the Democrats-it was Republican 

overconfidence--it was sunspots-it was the Communists-it was the civil service workers who didn't want to lose their cushy jobs 一itowas really Roosevelt who won the election. 
Anyway Harry didn't accomplish a thing一heowas just a victim of good fortune. What were the apologists for Dewey's failure doing? 


They were disparaging Truman's achievement. 
2.: playing it safe 
Willing to look at some more history of the late 1940s? 
Of course, Dewey did campaign, in his own way, for the presi-dency. As the Republican aspirant, he had to take a stand on the controversial Taft-Hartley Act. 
Was he for it? He was for that part of it which was goof). Natu-rally, he was against any of the provisions which were bad. Was he for it? The answer was yes一血doalso no. Take whichever an-swer you wanted most to hear. 

What was Dewey doing? 

He was equivocating. 



193 

3.eenjoying the little thingse
Have you ever gone through a book that was so good you keptehugging yourse1femental1y aseyou read? Have you ever seen a playeor motion picture that was so charming that you felt sheer delight as you watched? Or perhaps you have had a portion of pumpkin-chiffon pie, light and airy and mildly flavored, and with a flaky, delicious crust, that was the last word in gustatory enjoyment? 
Now notice the examples I have used. I have not spoken of books that grip you emotionally, of plays and movies由atekeepeyou on the edge of your seat in-suspense, or of food that satisfies a ravenous hunger. These would offer quite a different, perhaps more lasting and memorable, type of enjoyment. I have detailed, rather, mental or physical stimuli that ・excite enjoyably but not too sharply-aedelightful novel, a charming play, a delicious dessert. 

How do such things affect you? 

They titillate you. 
4.eplaying it way叩 
You know how the teen-agers of an earlier generation adored,eidolized, and overwhelmed Frank Sinatra, Elvis Presley, the Bea-ties? 
And of course you know how certain people fall all over visiting celebrities-best-selling authors, much publicized artists, or fa-mous entertainers. They show them ingratiating, almost servile at-tention, worship and flatter them fulsomely.* 
How do we say it in a single word? 

They adulate such celebrities. 
5.eaccentuating the negativee
What does the doctor say to you if you have low blood sugar?e"No candy, no pastries, no chocolate marshmallow cookies, no ice -
*eFulsome (FOOL'-s叩m)edoes not mean, despite its appearance, fully orecompletely, but rather, offe心iveebecause of excessfreness or in.sincerity,
often in reference to compliments, praise, admiration, or flattery. 
194 



cream!", your morale dropping lower and lower.as each favorite goody is placed on the forbidden list. What, in one word, is the doctor doing? 
The doctor is proscribing harmful items in your diet. 

6.eaccentuating the affirmativee

You are warm, friendly, enthusiastic, outgoing, easy to please;eyou are quick to show appreciation, yet accept, without judgment or criticism, the human weaknesses of others. 

You are a fascinating talker, an even better listener. 
You believe in, and practice, honest sell-disclosure; you feel comfortable with yourself and .therefore with everyone else; and you have a passionate interest in experiencing, in living, in relating to people. 
Need you have any fears about making friends? Obviously not 
Your characteristics and temperament obviate such fears. 
7.eplaying it wronge


Theodor Reilc, in his penetrating book on psychoanalysis Lis-tening with the Third Ear, talks about neurotic people who tincon-sciously wish to fail. In business interviews they say exactly the wrong words, they do exactly the wrong things, they seem intent (as, unconsciously, they actually are) on insuring failure in every possible way, though consciously they are doing their best to court success. 


What effect does such a neurotic tendency have? 

It militates against success. 
8.eplaying it dirty

"Harry?" H心aecloset alcoholic. Maud? She's sleeping arounde-'and her stupid husband doesn't suspect a thing. Bill? He's em-be互lingefrom his own company. Paul? He's a child molester. 






195 


S纽y?eYou don't know that she's a notorious husband-beater产eWhat is this character doing? 
He'smali伊由屯 everyone.e

9.egiving the-benefit of any doubte

Do you think it's all right to cheat on your income taxes? Ateleast just a little? It's wrong, of course, but doesn't everybody do it? 
How do you feel about marital infidelity? Are you inclined to overlook the occasional philandering of the male partner, since, after all, to invent a clicbe, men are essentially polygamous by na-ture? 
If your answers are in the affirmative, how are you reacting to such legal or ethical 
You condone them. 

10.echanging hostilitye
Unwittingly you have done something that has aroused angereand resentment in your best friend. You had no desire to hurt him, yet he makes it obvious that he feels pretty bitter about the whole situation. (Perhaps you failed to invite him to a gathering he wanted to come to; or you neglected to consult 
him before making a decision on a matter in which he felt he should have some say.) His friendship is valuable to you and you wish to re-store yourself in his good graces. What do you do? 



You try to placate him. 
USING THE WORDS 

Can you pronounce the words? 
1.edisp”agedis-PAIR勺j
2.
叩ivocateeee-KWIV'今kayt'e

3.etitillateeTIT七＇layt'e






4.eadulateeAJ'七Iayt'e
5.eproscribeepro-SKRIB' 
6.eobviateeOB'-vee-ayt' 

1. militatee. MIL'-a-tayt 
8.emalignem今LIN'e
9.econdoneekan-DON' 
10.eplacateePLAY'-kayt' 

Can you work with the words? 
1.edisparageea.eflatter lavishlye
2.eequivocateeb. work againste
3.etitillateec. prohibite
4.eadulatee
d.eforgivee
5.eproscribeee.echange hostility to friendli-nesse
6.eobviateef.epurposely tallc in such a wayeas to be vague and mislead-


ing 
7.em出tateeg.eslandere

8.emaligneh.eplayedowne
9.econdoneei.emake unnecessarye
10.eplacateej.etickle; stimulate pleasurablye

4-a, 5--c,6-i, 7-b, 8-g, 9-d, _10-e 
Do you understand the words? 
1.eDo you normaUy disparage somethingeYES NO 

you admire?e

2.eDo you equivocate if you think iteYES NO unwise to take a definite stand?e
3.eDo pleasant things titillate you?eYES NO 
4.eDo emotionally mature people neede
YES NO ., constant adulation?e
5.eIs sugar proscribed for diabetics?e
YES NO 
6.eDoes a substantial fomme obviateeYES NO financial fears?e







7.eDoes a workers inefficien可often 邓S  NO  
militate against his keeping his job?e 
8.eDo people enjoy being maligned?e YES  NO  
9.eJ)ll we generally condone the faults of 邓S  NO  
those we love?  
10.Can you sometimes p血teea person bye 
apologizing?e YES  NO  

KEY: 1-no, 2-yes, 3-yes, 4-no, 5-yes, 6-yes, 7-yes, 8-no, 9-yes, 10-yese
Can you use the words? 
In this exercise you gain the value of actually writing a new word as a meaningful solution to a problem. To think about a word,to say it, to write it, to use it-that is the road to word mas-tery. Write the verb that best fits each situation. 
1.eYou've been aske!f to take a stand on a certain issue, but youeYou 
be either definitelf for or against.e
2.eYou spread around an unpleasant story that you know wille
blacken someone's reputation.eYouethateperson. 

3.eYour friend is justifiably angry一eyoueasked him to go to aeparty with you, ignored him all evening, and then finally leftewith someone else. What must you do if you wish to restoreethe relationship?e
Youn:r四trytoehim.e

4.eYou virtually worship your therapist. You express your admi-ration in lavish flattery; you praise her in such excessive termsethat she appears devoid of all human frailty.e
Youeher. 

5.eYou are crowding 260 on the scales, so your doctor warnseagainst high-ca1orie meals, rich desserts, second helpings, ex-cessive carbohydrates, etc.e


The doctor. these foods. 




6.eYour child Johnnie has smacked the neighbor's kid-entirelyewithout provocation, you are forced to admit. But after all,eyou think,'tomorrow the other kid will, with equal lack of provocation, probably smack Johnnie.e
You Johnni森behavior.e

7.eWhen your son, understandably expecting praise, mentionsethe three B's and two A's he earned in his courses, you re-spond, callously, "Is that the best you 
can do? What stoppedeyou from getting all A飞？e” 

Youehis accomplishment. 
8.eYou have run out of cash and plan to go to the bank to makeea withdrawal; then unexpectedly you discover a twenty-dollarebill you secreted in your desk drawer months ago.e
Your find a trip to the bank.e

9.eYou are the soul of honesty, but unfortunately, you have ae



sneaky, thievish, sinister look-and no one ever trusts you.eYour appearanceeagainst you.e
10.eThe centerfold of Pl叮boyeor Pl叮girleprovides a mild andeagreeable stimulation.e


KEY: 1-equivocate, 2-malign, 3-placate, 4-adulate, s..:..pro-scril?es, 6-condone, 7-disparage, 8-obviates, 9-militates, 

friendlinesse
2.emake unnecessarye. 2. 
0.e
3. belittlee
4.eoverlook or forgive a.e4.etransgressione
5.etickle; delight; stimulatee5.eT.epleasurablye
6. spread malicious rumors about 6.eMe


199 

・ ・ 
7. purposelyuselanguage 7. susceptible of opposite interpretations 
KEY: 1-placate, 2--0bviate, 3-disparage，牛ondone, 5-titillate, 6-malign, 7-equivocate, 8-m正tat e (against), 9-proscribe, 


(End of Session 19) 

SESSION 20 

ORIGINS AND RELATED WORDS 

1. equality 
If you play golf, you know that each course or hole has a cer-tain par, the number of strokes allowed according to the results achieved by expert players. Your own accomplishment on the course will be at par, above par, orbelow par. 
Similarly, somedays you may feel up to par, other days below par. 

Par is from a Latin word meaning equal. You may try, when you play goH, to equal the expert score; and some days you may, or may not, feel equal to your usual sell. 
When we speak of par切payments to farmers, we refer to pay-ments that show an equal切to earnings for some agreed-upon year. 
So 
when you心parage, you lower someone's par, or feeling of 



叩ality,（世aseyou know, may be a negative prefix). The noun is disparagement (dis-PA吹-Qj-mant),ethe adjective disparaging(dis-PA职.j-ing),e
as in "Why do you always malce disparagingremarks about 

Pari句(PA职.tee)eas a noun means equali忱disparitye(dis-PA职今tee)emeans a lack of equal彻orea difference. We may speak, for example, of the disparity between someone's promiseand performance; or of the dispar切betweenethe rate of vocabu-lary growth of a child and of an adult. The adjective disparate (DIS'-p今Nt)eindicates essential or complete difference or ine-quality, as in "Om philosophies are so disparate _that we can never come to any agreement on action." 

The word compare and all its forms (comparable, comparative, etc.) derive from par, equal. Two things are compared when they have certain equal or similar qualities, (con-, com-, together, with). 
Pidr and peer 
are also from par. Things (shoes, socks, gloves, etc.) in pairs are equal or similar; your peers are those equal to you, 
as in age, position, rank, or ability. Hence the expression "to be judged by a jury of one's peers." 

(Briti. p!ers, however, such is the contradiction of language, were nobles.) 

2.'how to say yes and no 
Equivocate is built on another 
Latin word meaning equal一 aequus (the spelling in English is always equ一）一plusevox, vocis, voice. 
When you equivocate (Q-KWIV'七ka汗），youeseem to be saying both yes and no with equal voice. An equivocal（今KWIV'-吐Q])eanswer, therefore, is by design vague, indefinite, and suscep-tible of contradictory interpretations, quite the opposite of an une-quivocal (un'-.KWIV＇今bl)eresponse, which says Yes! or No!,and rio kidding. Professional politicians are masters of equivoca-tion（今kwiv'心KAY'-sbQn)-theyeare, on most vital issues, mug-wumps; they sit on a fence with their mugs on one side and their wumps on the other. You will often bear candidates如officeesay, publicly, that they unequivocally promise, if elected, toe... ; and then they start equivocating for all they are worth, like people 



201 

who say, "Let me be perfectly frank with you立-andethen promptly and glibly lie through their teeth. 

3.estatements of various kindse
Do not confuse equivocal with ambiguous (eAn equivocal statement is purposely, deliberately (and with ice aforethought) couched in language that will be deceptive 血biguousestatement is accidentally couched in such langu Equivocal is, in short, purposely血biguous.e
You will recall that ambi一，whichewe last met in血bivert血bidextrous,eis a root meaning both,・ anything ambiguous have both one meaning and another meaning. If you say,' sentence is the height of ambiguity," you mean that you vague because it admits of both affirmative and negative pretations, or because it may mean two different things. biguity is pronounced am屯心YOO-:i-tee.e
Another type of statement or word contains the p two interpretations-one of them suggestive, risque, or sexy. a statement or word is a double entendre. This is from the and translates literally as double me血ing.eGive the word as a french pronunciation as you can-D (The n's are nasalized, the r somewhat throaty, and the final 
ble is barely 

REVIEW OF ETYMOLOGY 
双EPIX, ROOT, 
SUFFIX MEANING ENGLISH WORD 
1.epareequal 
2.e-mentenoun suffix attached to verbs 
3.一切e
noun suffix attached to adjectives 

4.edi乒 negative prefix 
5.econ-, com-with, together 
6.eaequ匹 (equ-)e・202e
7.evox, vocisevoice 
8.e-ateeverb suffix 
9.e-ionenoun suffix attached to verbs ending ine-ate 






、 
11.eambi-both 


USING THE WORDS 
Can you pronounce the words? 
1.eparityePAIR'七teee
2.edisparitydis-PA攻＇七teee
3.edisparateeDIS'-1心rate4.dispar,咽ementdis-PAIR勺.-mant

adjective suffix 


5.edisparaginge
6.epeere


1.eequivocatee
8.eequivocatione
9.eequivocale
10.eunequivocale
11.eambiguouse
12.eambiguitye13, double entendree

Can you work with the words? 

1.eparitye
2. disparitye

PEER 今KWIV＇今ka汛'今kwiv'..g..KAY'-shan 仑KWIV＇今kal血今＇KWIV'一亡kgJ.eam-BIG'-y砬郊 am＇一\GY仅｝，今teeeDOOB'-fabn-TAHN'-drg 
a.ebelittlemente
b.eact of being deliberatelyevague or indirectly deceptive;estatement that is deceptive ore

int叩relationse
3.edisparagementec.equality of being open to mis-interpretation; statement withethis qualitye
4.epeered.estatement or word with twoe


203 





-m印nin炉，oneeof them risq啦，indelica邑orof possible sex-ual connotation 

S.eequivocationee.einequalitye
KEY: 1-f,2-e, 3-a, 4-g, 5-b，妇7--de
Do you understand the words? 

1.Is 
there a社叩＂切垃ageebetween aeYES NO grandfather and his granddaughter? 

2. Is an eq成vocalestat叩印tclearandeYES NO direct? 
3.eIs an unequivocal answer vague andeYES NO misleadin纹e
4.eAre politicians often masters ofeYES NO equivocatio让e
5.eAreambi,即叩aesentences somewhateYES NO confusing? 
6.Are 
people with dispcm血perceptionse
YES NO of life likely to experience reality in the same way?

7.
Isa必匹吨岫lookeone ofeYES NO admiration? 

8.When 
people equivocate, are th可e

YES NO evading the issue? 

9.Is 
the deli飞erateuse of doubleeYES NO entendres likely to sh吐p血tanicalepeople? 





10.eAre supervisors and their subordinateseYES NO 







Can your recall the words? 

L234
1.eaccidentally vaguee
2.epurposely vaguee
3.eequality --
4.eword or statement one meaningof which may be interpreted asrisquee


S.elack of equalitye
6.ebelittlemente
7. U
7.eclear; direct; capable of onlye
one interpretatione

8.eessentially or widely unequal ord谊erente
9.eone's equal in age, ranlc, etc.e
10.eto use words in a calculatedeeffort to mislead or to beeambiguouse

KEY: 1-ambiguous, 2-equivocal, 3-parity, 4-double entendre,5-disparity, 6-disparagement, 7-unequivocal, 8-disparate,9-peer, 10-equivocatee

SESSION 21 

ORIGINS AND RELATED WORDS 
1.e
more on equalitye



.n!?°t aequus, spelled equ-in English words, is a buildinge
1.equi灯（E区wg-tee)―justice,efairness; i.e., equal treatment.e


205 



(By extension, stocks in the:6nancial markets are equities, and the value of your home or other property over and above the amount of the mortgage you owe is your equity in it.) The adjective is equitable (EK'-w:r氐加l).o
2.oi
.equi句(in-EK'-w今tee)-injustice,unfairness (equ切plusothe negative prefix i兀）．oAdjective:oinequitable (in-EK＇一W今t今加1).o
3.
加qu切（in-IK'-w今tee)一byoone of those delightful sur-prises and caprices characteristic of language, the change of a sin-gle letter (e to i), extends the meaning of a word far beyond its derivation and original denotation. Injustice and unfairness are sinful and wicked, especially'if you naively believe that life is fair. So a "den of iniquity''is a place where vice flourishes; an i戌quityois a sin or vice, or an egregiously immoral act; and iniquity is wickedness, sinfulness. Adjective: i戌quito匹(in-IKw吵s).
一＇
4.oequinox (EB'-kw吐oks')--etymologically,o"oequal night," aocombination of aequus and nox, noctis, night. The equinox, when day and night are of equal length, occurs twice a year: about March 21, and again about September 21 or 22. (The adjective is equinoctial-七d士w今NOK'-shgL)oNocturnal (nok-TURN＇ .I),oderivedfromnox, noctis, describespeople, animals, or plants that are active or丑ourishoat night rather・ than during daylight hours. Cats and owls are noctu叩l,oas is the moonflower, whose blos-soms open at night; not to mentiono''night people," whose biorhythms are such that they function better after the sun goes down, and who like to stay up late and sleep well into midmorn-ing. A nocturne (NOK'-turn) is a musical composition of dreamy character (i.e., night music), or a painting of a night scene. 
5.
equanim切(ee＇士w今N1M＇今teeoor ek'-w吐廿M勺－tee)一 etymologically aequus plus anim匹， mind,ohence "equal mind." Maintain your equanimi句，youroevenness of temper, your compo-sure, your coolness or calmness, when everyone around you is get-ting excited or hysterical, and you will probably be considered an admirable person, though one might wonder what price you pay for such emotional control. (Other words built on animus, mind, will be discussed in Chapter 12.) 

6.oEquability （记士叩－BIL勺－teeoor ek'-w今BIL勺－tee)-aoclose synonym of equanimity. A person of equable (EB'-tw;i.;加1


or・EK勺V今bru)otemperament is characteristically calm, serene, 
7.oequilibrium (ee'士w今L窟－ree-am)一byoderivation aequusoplus libra, balance, weight, pound, hence "oequal balance." Libra (Ll'-bn,) is the seventh sign of the zodiac, represented by a pair of scales. Now you know, in case the question has been bothering you, why the abbreviation for the word pound is lb. and why the symbol for the British pound, the monetary unit, is ￡. Equilib-rium is a state of p切'Sicalobalance, especially between opposingforces. When you are vecy drunk you may have difficulty keepingyour equilibrium-the force of gravity is stronger than your abil-ity to stay upright. An equilibrist（于KWIL＇ .brist),oas you might guess, is a professional tightrope walker-a performer successfully defying the law of gravity (when sober) by balancing on a thin overhead 

The equator divides the earth into equal halves, and words like equation, equivalent, equidistant, equiangular, and equilateral (from,Latin latus, lateris, side) are self-explanatory; 
2.onot to be confused with horses
Equestrian（a-KWES'-tree-an) is someone on a horse (as pe-destrian is someone on foot)；血equestrienne（今kwes'-tree-EN')ois a woman on a horse (if you must make the distinction); and equine (EB'士吭n)ois like a horse, as in appearance or charac-teristics, or descriptive of horses. 
Equestrian is also an adjective referring to horseback riding, as an equestrian statue; and equine is also a noun, i.e., a horse. 
So the equ-in these words, from Latin equ匹，horse,is not to be confused with the equ-in the words of the previous section-that equ-is from aequ瓜，equal.o(Remember, also, not to confuse the ped-in pedestrian, from Latin pedis, foot, with the ped-in pedia-trician, from Greek paidos, child.) 
3.ohear voices?o



Equivocal, you will recall, combines aequ匹withovox, vocis,o;yoice; and vox, vocis combines with fero,_ to bear or c叩，tooform 印ciferous(vgIF'妞-as),oetymologically "carrying (much) 









207 
voice," hence loud, noisy, clamorous, as vociferous demands (not at all quiet or subtle), or the vocifero邱 playeof young children ('．Please! Try to be quiet so Dad can get his work done!"), though unfortunately TV addiction has abnormally eliminated child noises, at least during the program breaks between commercials. 
(Vociferous will be曲四ssedeat greater length in Chapter 10.) 
If you are vocal(VU七e1),eyou express yourself readily and freely by voice; vocal sounds are voiced; vocal music is sung; and you know what your vocal cords are for. 
To vocal妇(Vo'-k今liz')eis to give voice to (''Vocalize your anger, don't hold it in!"), or to sing the vocals (or voice parts) of music. (Can you write the noun form of the verb vocalize? 
) A vocalist (Vo'-k今list)eis a singer.AndM如叨oxe(vox plus magnus, large) is the trade name for a brand of radios and TV sets. 

REVIEW OF ETYMOLOGY 

PREFIX, ROOT, SUKμ比 
MEANING ENGLISH WORD 
equal
negative prefixe
1.aequ匹(equ-)2.in-3.nox, noctis4.anim匹
5． 一切6.libra
竺 noun suffix 

balance, weight, pound 
7.e-isteperson who 
8.elatus, lateriseside 
9., 
equ匹 horse 


10.e-ineelike, descriptive of 
11.epedisefoot 
12.epaidos (ped一）echild 
13.evox, vocisevoice 
14.eferoe
15.emagnuse



large 

USING THE WORDS 

Can you pronounce the words? 111 
1.-equity-
2.-equitable-
3.-inequity-
4.-inequitable-
5.-iniquity-
6.-iniquitous-
7. equinox-

8.-equinoctial-9.noctur皿l-


10.-nocturne-

Can you pronounce the words? (II) 

1.-equanimity-2.eq皿bility-
3.-equable-
4.-equilibrium-
5.-equilibrist-
6.-equilateral-
7.-equestrian-
8.-equine-
9.-vociferous-



10.-vocal-11.vocal比e-12.vocali加tion-
13.-vocalist-




Can yau work with the words? (I) 
1.-equity-EK'-wa-tee EK'-wa-ta-bal 

in-EK'-wa-tee in-EK'-w今氐bal
in-IK'-w今teein-IK'-w千tas-EE'-kwa-nokr/ 

ee'-kw今NOK'-shal-
nok-TURN'-al 
NOK'-tum 
e让kw:i-(or ek'-w:i) -NIM＇吵a-tee-ee'-kwa (or ek'-w:i) -BIL'-:i-tee EE'-kw:1-bal or EK'-wa如l-
ee'-kw:i-LIB＇-ree-:im 
eekWIL＇七brist-
ee-kw吐AT'-:ir-:il

今KWES'-tree-an-
EE'-kwin 
vo-SIF'-ar勺S-
VO'-bl 
Vo'-k千1讫'-
vo'-k今Ia-ZAY'-sh:in 
Vo勺ca-list
a.-time when night and day are-of equal length-





209 


2.inequity b.balance of mind; composure; calmness under trying cir-cumstances 


.it3inyuiq4.equinox 
5. nocturne 
KEY: 1-i,2-f,扫，4玉5士， 6-b,7-j, 8-c,9-g, 10-d, 11-h 
Can you work with the words?I川 
1. equitable 
a. descriptive of time when night and dayare of equal length 
2. inequitable b.give voice to; sing
3.
江iquitous 
c.having equal sides 


4.equinoctial d.using, or referring to, the 
｀
｀
｀
voice; freely expressing by voice 
5.nocturnal e.noisy, loud, clamorous 
6. equable f. calm, unruffled, even-tem-

7.equilateral 8.voe订erous
peredfaig.justr, referringh. 

or pertaining to, or 
active at, night 9.vocal i.sinful, wicked, immoral 





Do you understand the words? 

1.oIs life always equitable?o
2.oDoes the cynic expect more inequityothan equity in life?o
3.Do 
ethical people practice iniqui切o

4.oDoes the equinox occur once a month?o
5.oAre noctUT111ll animals active at nigh.?o
6.oIf you generally preserve youro
equanimity, do you often get veryoexcited?o
7.oIs it easy to maintain your equilibriumoon icy ground? 
8.oIs equability the mark of a calm,oeven-tempered person? 
9.oDoes an equilateral triangle have equalosides? 
10.oIs an equine a dog/o
11.oIf.you demand something vociferously,o



do you make a lot of noise?o
12.oH you are vocal, do you have difficultyoexpressing yourself?o
13.oIs a vocalist the same as ano




Can you recall the wo_rds? (I) 
1.oto give voice to; to expresso1.oV.oaloud; to singo
2.otightrope wallcero2. 3..oacti

active or flourishing at nighto
4.odescriptive or characteristic of,o4.oor like, a horseo
邓S  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  


211 
S. referring to the voice; skillful or S. V. fluent in expressing by voice 
6. calm and unflappable in 6. temperament
7. wicked, sinful 7. 
8. night music 8. N. 
9. fairness, justice 9. 

KEY: I-vocalize, 2-equilibrist, 3-nocturnal, 4-equine,. 5-vocal, 
6-equable, 7-iniquitous, 8-noctume, 9-equity．一 
Can you recall the words? (II) 

1.loud,noisy, clamorous 
1.V. 
2. person on horseback 2. 
3. calmness or evenness of temper or3. 
4. unfair, unjust 4. 
5. sin; wickedness; grossly 5.inunoral behavior 
6. time when day and night are of 6. Eequal length 
7. fair, just,eve血anded 7.
8. physical balance; balance 8.between opposing forces 
9. having equal sides .lO. singer . 1:. v. 

KEY: I-vociferous, 2-equestrian ・or equestrienne, 3-equanimity or equability, 4-inequitable, 5-iniquity, 6-equinox,



SESSION 22 


1.ehow to ticklee
Titillate comes from a Latin verb meaning to tickle, and may beeused both literally and figuratively. That is (literally),you can tit-讥ateeby gentle touches in strategic places; you are then causing an actual (and always very pleasant) physical sensation. Or you 
can (figuratively) titillate people, or their m血s,efancies, paJ,ates (and thls is 
the more common use of the word), by charm, brilliance, wit, promises, or in any other way your imagination can conceive. 
Titillation (tit'仑LAY'-shan)ehas the added meaning of light sex.ual stimulation. (Note that both noun and. ver:t> are spelled with a double l.,四 aedoublet.) 


2.ehow to flattere
A compliment is a pleasant and courteous expression of praise;eflattery is stronger than a compliment and often.considered insin-cere. Adulation (aj'.LAY'-shQn) is flattery and worship carried to an excessive, ridiculous degree. There are often public figures (entertainers, musicians, govemme_nt 
officials, etc.) who receive widespread adulation, but those not in the public eye can also be adulated, as a teacher by students, a wife by husband (and, vice versa), a doctor by patients, and so on.(The derivation is from a Latin verb m.aning to fawn upon.) 
The adjective adulato巧(aj'-a-la-TAWR'-ee)eends in-0疗，aesuffix we are meeting for the first time in these pages. (Other ad-jective suffixes: -al, -ic, -ical'一0匹）


3.eways of writinge
・eP.oscrl_b_!!. .o forbid, is commonly used for medical, religious, ore_legal prohi飞itions.eA doctor proscribes a food, drug, or activity that might proveeharmful to the patient. The church proscribes, or announces aeproscription (p心KRIP'-sban)eagainst, such activities as mayeharm its parishioners. The law proscribes behavior detrimental toethe public welfare.Generally, one might concede, proscribed activities are the mostepleasant ones-as Alexander Woolcott once remarked, if some-thing is pleasurable, it's sure to be either immoral, illegal, or fat-tening.The derivation is the prefix pro-, before, plus scribo, scriptus, toewrite. In ancient Roman tintes, a man's name was written on aepublic bulletin board if he bad committed some crime for whichehis property or life was to be forfeited; Roman citizens in goodstanding would thereby know 
to avoid him. In a. similar sense, theedoctor writes down those foods or activities that are likely to com-mit crimes against the patient's health-in that way the patientknows to avoid them.eScribo, scriptus is the building block of scores of common Eng-:-lish words: scribe, scribble, prescribe, describe, subscribe, script,ethe Scriptures, manuscript, typescript, etc. Describe uses the prefixede-, down―to describe is, etymologically, "to write down" about.eManuscript, combining manus, hand (as in manual labor), withescriptus, is something handwritten-the word was coined beforeethe invention of the typewriter. The Scriptures are holy writings.e

To subscribe (as to a magazine) is to write one's・ name under aneorder or contract (sub-, under, 
as in subw矶 subsurface,eetc.); toesubscribe to a philosophy or a principle is figuratively to writeeone's name under the statement of such philosophy or principle.
To inscribe is to write in or into (a book; for example, or metaleor stone). A postscript is something written after (Latin post,eafter) the main part is finished.
Note how-scribe verbs change to nouns and adjectives: 
VERB NOUN AD:JECTIVE prescribe prescription prescriptive ・subscribeesubscription 
subscriptive 





Can you follow the pattern? describe i邓cribeeproscribe 

4.eit's obviouse

You are familiar with the word via, by way of, which is fromethe Latin word for road. (The Via Appia was one of the famous highways of ancient Roman times.) When something is obvious; etymologically it is right there in the middle of the road where no one can fail to see it一hence,eeasily seen, not hidden, conspicuous. And if you meet an obstacle in the road and dispose of it forth-with, you are doing what 
obviate says. Thus, if you review your work daily in some c_pllege subject, frenzied "cramming" at the end of the semester will be obviated. A large and steady income obviates fears of financial insecurity; leaving for work early will obviate worry about being late. To obviate, then, is to make un-necessary, to do away with, to prevent by taking effective meas-ures or steps against (an 
occurrence, feeling, a requirement, 
etc.)e! The noun is obviation (ob'-vee-AY'-a shan). Surprisingly, via, road, is ・the root in the English word trivial (tri一，three).eWhere three roads intersect, you are likely to find busy traffic, lots of people, in short a fairly public place, so you are not going to talk of important or confidential matters, lest you be overheard. You will, instead, talk of trivial(TRIV＇心为I)ethings ―whatever is unimportant, without great significance; you・ will confine your conversation to trivialities (triv'-ee--AL'七teez)eor to trivia (also a plural noun, pronounced TRIV'-ee-:,), insignificant trifles. 

5.eware

Militate derives from militis, one of the forms of the Latin nounemeaning soldier or fighting man. If something militates against you, it fights against you, i.e., works to your disadvantage. Thus, your timidity may militate against your keeping your friends. (Militate is always followed by the preposition against and, like 




obviate, never takes a personal subject一youedon't militate against anyone, but some habit, action, tendency, etc. militates against someone or something.) 
The adjective militant (M正勺七nt)ecomes from the same 
root. A militant reformer is one who fights for reforms; a militant 
campaign is one waged aggressively and with determination. The 
noun is militancy (M辽女心n-see),eand militant is also a noun 
for the person一“Sallyeis a militant in the Women's凶eratione
movement." 
Military and militia also have their origin in militis. 
6.efirst the bad newse
Built on Latin malus, bad, evil, to malign is to speak evil about,e
to defame, to slander. Malign is also an adjective meaning bad, 
harmful, evil, hateful, as in "the malign influence of his uncon-
scious will to fail." Another adjective form is malignant (m:,-
LIG'也nt),eas in "a malignant glance," i.e., one showing deep 
hatred, or "a malignant growth," i.e., one that is cancerous (bad). 
The noun of malignant is malignancy (m吐IG'心研see),e
which, medically, is a cancerous growth, or, generally, the condi-
tion, state, or attitude of harmfulness, hatefulness, evil intent, etc. 
The noun form of the adjective malign is malignity (m:,-LIG'-n:,-
tee). 

Observe how we can construct English words by combining 
malus with other Latin roots. 

Add the root dico, dictus, to say or tell, to form malediction 
(mal'.DIK'-sh:,n), a curse, i.e., an evil saying. Adjective: male-
dict叩e(mal＇今D1K＇一氐ree).e
Add the root volo, to wish, to will, or to be wjlling, and we can 
construct the adjective malevolent (m今LEV勺－lent),ewishing evil 
or harm-amalevolent glance, attitude, feeling, etc. The noun is malevolence (m:,-LEV'-Q-bns). 
Add the root facio, fac扭a,eto do ot make (also spelled, in Eng-
lish words, fee-, fie-, factus, or, as a verb ending，书），toeform the 
adjective maleficent (m仑LEF女'-s叩t),edoing harm or evil, or 
causing hurt-maleficent acts, deeds, behavior. 
Can you figure out, and pronounce, the noun form of maleficent? 

A malefactor (M丛勺-fak'-wr)ais a wrongdoer, an evildoer, a criminal-amalefactor comm.its a malefaction (mal'七FAK'-sh.n), a crime, an evil deed. 
French is a "Romance" language, that is, a language based on Roman or Latin (as are, also, Spanish, Portuguese, Italian; and Romanian), and so Latin malus became French mal, bad, the source of maladroit (mal'-:i-DROYT'), clumsy, bungling, awk-ward, unskillful, etymologically, having a "bad right hand." (See adroit, Chapter 3.) The noun is maladroitness. Also from French mal: malaise (m今LAYZ'), an indefinite feeling of bodily dis-comfort, as in a mild illness, or as a symptom preceding an illness; etymologically, "bad ease," just as disease (dis-ease) is "lack of ease." 
Other common words that you are familiar with also spring from Latin malus: malicious, malice, malady; and the same malus functions as a prefix in words like maladjusted, malcontent, mal-practice, malnutrition, etc., all with the connotation of badness. 
And what's the good news? See Session 23. 
REVIEW OF百YMOLOGY
PlEFIX, ROOT,  
SUFFIX  MEANING  ENGLISH WORD  
1.-0疗a adjective suffix  
2.ascribo, scriptusa to write  
3.ade- down  
4.amanusa hand  
5.asub- under  
6.ain- in, into  
1.aposta after  
8.aviaa road  
9.atri- three  
10.amilitisa soldier  
11. malusa bad, evil  
12.adico, dictusa13.avoloa to say, tell tow抽  




to do, make 
15.--ence, -ancy-noun suffix 

WORKING WITH THE WORDS 
Can you pronounce the words? (I) 
1.-titillation-
2.-adulation-
3.-adulatory-
4.-proscription-
5.-proscripdve-
6.-obviation-
7. trivial-
8.-trivialities-
9. trivia-
10. militant-
11.-militancy-
12.-malign (adj.)-
13.-malignity-
14.-malig,iant-
15.-malignancy-


Can you pronounce the words? (II) 
1.-malediction-
2.-maledictory-
3.-malevolent-
4.-malevolence-5.mal顽cent-

6.-maleficence-
7.-malefactor ・-
8.-malefactio九 
9.-maladroit-
10.-maladroitness-
11.-malaise ・-




tit'七LAY'-sh:in-
af-:i-LA Y'-sh:in AJ宅1今tawr'-eepro-SK亚－sh叩 pro-SKRIP'-tiv ob'-vee-AY'-sh:in TRIV'-ee-:il triv'-ee-AL'－今teez-TRIV＇一ee-:i皿'-:i-t:int-MIL＇今.n-see-m:i-LIN' m3-LIG'-n今tee-m今LIG'一正nt-m今LIG'-n:in-see-



mal'今D1K＇一sh:in-mat'勺－DIK'-t::i-ree-m:i-LBV'-:i-1::int 
m:i-LBV'匀-fans-mg..LBF'今s::int-
m:i-LBF＇仑S叩S-MAL:＇令fak'-t忒 mal'+FAK'-sh叩 mat仁:i-DROYT'-mal'-:i-DROYT'-n::is m今．LAYZ'-










Can you work with the words? (I) 
1. titillation 
2. adulation 
3. proscription 
4. militancy 
5. malignity 
6. malediction 

a.pr咖bition 
b. hatefulness; harmfulness 
c. clumsiness 

d.quality of wishing evil;・ill-will 
e. prevention; fact or. act of making unnecessary or of doing away with 
f. worship; excessive flattery 


7.maladroitness 
g.vague feeling of・bodily dis-comfort 

8.obviation b.pleasurable stimulation; tick-ling 
9.malevolence 1. 
acurse 
10. malaise j. aggresshreness 
KEY: 1-h, 2-f, 3-a,4-j, 5-b, 6-i,7-c,8-e,9-d, 10-g 
Can you work with the words? (II) 
1. adulatory 
2. proscriptive 
3. militant 4.. malign 


5．飞trivial 
6. maledictory 
7.malevolent 
8. maladroit 

a. aggressive; "fighting" 
b. ofnogreat consequence 
c. bearing ill-will; wishing harm 

d. of the nature of curses 
e. clumsy, awkward 
f. worshipful, adoring 
g. bad, harmful, hurtful 
h. relatingorpertainingto pro-hibitions 



219 



Do you understand the words? 
1. Doesamalignant look indicate kindly YES feelings? 
2. Is acancersometimescalleda YES NO 


3. 
Are trivia/ties important? 
4. H your house is cluttered with trivia, arethese objects of great value? 
YESYES 

S. Do people enjoy having maledictions YES hurledat them? 

6. Isamaleficent act likely to cause harm orhurt? 
7. Does maladroitness show skill? 
8. Isa malefactor a wrongdoer? YES NO 
9. Doesanadulatory attitude show YES NO exaggerated admiration? 

10.ismilitancy the sameas passiveness? YES NO 

KEY: 1-no, 2-yes, 3-no, 4-no, 5-no,6-yes, 7-no,8-yes, 9-yes, 

Can you recall thewords?(II 

1.clwnsy,awkward 1.M. 
2.bearing诅－will;wishing harm 2.M. 
3.pleasurablestimulation 3.T. 
4.aperson aggressively fighting 4.M. foracause 

5. prohibition against something mJunous 

6.excessive flattery; exaggerated 6. admiration 
7. vague feeling of general physical discomfort 
8. acriminal;awrongdoer 8. M 





9. acurse 9. M. 
10. acrime; bad orevilactor 10. M. behavior 

KEY: I-maladroit, 2-malevolent, 3-titillation, 4-militant, 5-pro-scription, 6-adulation, 7-malaise, 8-malefactor, 9-male-diction, 10-malefaction 
Can you recall the words? !Ill  
1. fact or act of making unnecessa ry  
or of taking e任ective steps  
toward prevention  
2. ・aggressive attitude  2. M  
3. harmful, hurtful, bad  3. M  
orM  
orM  
4. unimportant, insignificant  4. T.  
5. unimportant, insignificant things;  5. T  
trifles  or T.  
6. cursing; of the nature of,  or  6. M  
relating to, curses  (adj.)  
7. worshipful  7.  

KEY: 1-obvi.tion, 2-militancy, 3-malign, malignant, or maleficent, 4-trivial, 5-tri哑ties or trivia, 6-maleclictory, 7-adulatory 


(End of Session 22) 

221 



SESSION 23 
ORIGINS AND RELATED WORDS 
1.eso now what's the goode

bad,・ bonus is good. The adverb from the Latin adjec-tive bonus is bene, and bene is the root found in words that con-trast with the mal-tenns we studied in the previous session. 

So beni.如(bg..N应）andbenignant（切NI仅DQnt)eare not harmful, as in benign neglect, a benign enign tumor (not cancerous), a benignant attitude to and scoundrels.九eecorresponding nouns are benig-
社tye(b今NIG':..ng..tee)eand benignaney (b今NIG'－n证see).eA malediction is a curse; a benediction (ben＇心－DIK'.shQn)eis a 

"saying good." The adjective is benedictory (ben'－午e). In contrast to maleficent is beneficent（比NEF'七SQDt),edoing good. The noun? In contrast to malefactor is benefactor (BEN今fak'七r),eone who does good things for another, as by giving help, providing 

gifts or aid, or coming to the res叩eewhen 
someone is in need．丑youeinsist on making sexual distinctions, a woman who so a benefactress (BEN＇今fak'-扛s).eAnd, of course, the person receiving the benefaction (ben-今FAK'-sb叩），theere-
money, help, etc., is a beneficiary or Den3妞SH'-ee-air-ee).eBenefit and beneficial are other com-mon words built on the co.bination of bene and a form of facio, to do or make. 
So let others-be加ilevolentetoward you--confuse them by being 

(bg..NBV'-a-fant)..;...wish them well. (Turn the other not?) The noun? bonus, good, is found in English bonus, extra theoretically-but not necessarily一foresome good act; 

222 


in bonbon, a candy (a "good-good," using the French version of the Latin adjective); and in bona fide (BO'-n:i-FiD'eor BO'-n:i-页'-dee),eetymologically, 
"in good faith,''hence valid, without pretense, deception, or fraudulent intent-as a bona fide offer, a bona fide effort to negotiate differences, etc. Fides is Latin for faith or trust, as in fidelity (f:i-DEL勺－tee),efaithfulness; Fido, a stereotypical name for a dog, one's faithful friend; infidel (IN＇一位如1),eone who does not have the right faith or religion (depending on who is using the term), or one who has no religion (Latin in-, not); and infideli句e(in＇一比DEL'一己tee),eunfaithfulness, especially to the marriage vows. 
2.esay, do, and wishe

Benediction and malediction derive from dico, dictus, to say,etell. Dictate, dictator, dictation, dictatorial (clik'-ta-TAWR'-ee.l) -words that signify telling others what to do ("Do as I say!")一 are built on dico, as is predict, to tell beforehand, i.e., to say that something w诅occurebefore it actually does (pre-, before, as in prescient). 

The brand name Dictaphone combines dico with phone, sound; contradict, to say against, or to make an opposite statement ("Don't contradict me!"; .'That contradicts what I know") com-bines dico with contra-, against, opposite; and addiction, etymo-logically "a saying to or toward;" or the compulsion to say "yes" to a habit, combines dico with ad-, to, toward. 
Facio, factus, to do or make (as in malefactor, benefactor), has, as noted, variant spellings in English words: fee-, fie-, or, as a verb ep.ding, -fy. 


Thus factory is a place where things are made (-ory, place where); a fact is something done (i.e., something that occurs; or exists, or is, therefore, true); fiction, something made up or in-vented; manufacture, to make by hand (manus, hand, as in manu-script, manual), a word coined before the invention of machinery; 叩ificial,m必e.by. human..artir.ather than occurring in nature,_ as 
-artificial flowers, etc.; and cla.G，劝nplify,eliquefy, magn(抒(toemake clear, simple, liquid, larger) among hundreds of other书everbs.eVolo, to wish, to will, to be啤nge(as in malevolent, benevo-







lent), occurs in voluntary, involuntary, volunteer, words too fa-miliar to need definition, and each quite obviously expressing wish or willingness. Less common, and from the same root, is volition (vo-LISH'-an), the act or power of willing or wishing, as in "of her own volition," i.e., voluntarily, or "against her volition." 

3.eif you please!e
Placate is built on the root plac-which derives from two relatedeLatin verbs meaning, 1) to please, and 2) to appease, soothe, or pacify. 

If you succeed in placating an angry colleague, you tum that person's hostile attitud. into one that is friendly or favorable. The noun is placation (play-KAY'-shan), the adjective either placa-tive (PLAK'今tiveor PLA Y'-ka--tiv) or placatory (PLAK'今taw-ree or PLAY'-k今taw-ree).eA more placatory attitude to those you have offended may help you regain their friendship; when husband and wife, or lovers, quarrel, one of them finally makes a placative gesture if the war no longer fulfills his or her neurotic needs-one of them eventually will wake up some bright morning in a placatory mood. 

But then, such is life, the other one may at that point be impla-cable (im-PLAK'-a-bal or im-PLA Y'－丘bal)-im-is a respelling of in-, not, before the letter p. One who can be soothed, whose hostility can be changed to friendliness, is placable (PLAK'-a--bal or PLA Y'-ka-bal). 

Imp/a叨bleehas taken on the added meaning of unyielding to entreaty or 
pity; hence, harsh, relentless, as "The governor was implacable in his refusal to grant clemency." 
The noun form of implacable is implacability (im-plak'-a--BJL＇一ea-tee or im-pla沪还BIL宅tee).eCan you write (and pronounce)ethe noun derived from placable?e
If you are placid (PLAS＇.id), you are calm, easygoing, serene, undisturbed--etymologically, you are pleas必withethings as they are. Waters. of a lake or sea, or the emotional atmosphere of a place, can also be placid. The noun is placidity (pl今SID宅tee).eIf you are complacent (bm-PLAY-sant), you are pleased with yourself (com-, from con-, with, together); you may, in fact, such is one common connotation of the word, be smug, too pleased 



with your position or narrow accomplishments, too easily self-satisfied, and the hour of reckoning may be closer than you real-ize. (Humans, as you know, are delighted to be critical of the con-tentment of others.) 
The noun is complacence（比皿PLAY'-sans)oor complacency (kam-PLAY'心an-see).o
4.ohow to give--and forgiveo
To condone is to forgive, overlook, pardon, or be uncritical ofo(an offense, or of an antisocial or illegal act). You yourself might or might not indulge in such behavior or commit such an offense, but you feel no urge to protest, or to demand censure or punish-ment for someone else who does: You may condone cheating on one's income tax, shoplifting from a big, impersonal supermarket, or exceeding the spee<i limit, though you personally observe the law with scrupulousness. (Not everyone, however, is so charitable or forgiving.) The noun is condonation (kon'-do-NAY'-shan). 
Condone is built on Latin dono, to give, the . root found in donor, one who gives; donate, to give; and donation, a gift, 
REVIEW OF ETYMOLOGY 
PREFIX, ROOT, 
SUFFIX  ・  MEANING  ENGLISH WORD  
1.obonus, beneo2.ofideso good, well faith  
3.odico, dictuso4.opre-5.ophoneo6.ocontra-1.oad- to say, tell before, beforehand sound a驴inst,oopposite to, toward  

8.ofacio, factus, fee-, to make or do fie-, -fyo
9.o-oryoplace where 
10.omanusoband 
11.ovolooto wish, to will, to be willing 
12.-plac-to please, appease, soothe, pacify 
13.--ive-adjective suffix adjective suffix 





225 
15.-im-(in-)-not; negative prefix 16, com-(con-)-with, together 

11.-dono-to give 

USING THE WORDS 
Can you pronounce the words? (I) 
1.-benign-
2.-benignity-3.be对'gnant-


4.-benignan勺 
5.-benediction-
6.-benedictory-
7.-beneficent-
8.-beneficence-
9.-benefactor-

10.-benefactio兀 
11.-beneficiary-
12.-benevolent-
13.-benevolence-
14.-bonafide-
15.-fidellty-
16.-infidelity-


11.-infidel-
Can you pronounce the words? (Ill 

1.-dictatorial-
2.-volition-
3.-placatio九 
4.-placative-


ba-N爪'-b亡NIG'－n今tee-b今NIG'－nant-.-ba-NIG'-nan-see ben
仁a-DIK'-sban-ben'-a-DIK＇一t今ree-ba-NEF'－今sant-ba-NBF，今sans-BEN'-a-fak'七r-ben'-a-F AK'-shan ben＇仑FISH'-ar-ee-or ben勺－FISH'-ee-air-ee阮NEV'仑lant-b千NEV'－今fans-BO'-na FID'or BO'一凹 FI'-dee-f今DEL'七teein'一丘DEL＇七tee-IN＇一fa-dal

蓝－t今TAWR＇一ee-al-

vo-LISH＇ :.an 
play-KAY'-sh叩 PLAK'.tiv or PLAY'-k今tiv-






5.eplacatorye
6, placable 

1.eimplacablee
8.placabili句e
9.eimplacabilitye
10.eplacide
11.eplaciditye
12.ecomplacente
13.ecomplacencee
14.ecomplacencye
15.econdonatione


Can you work with the words? Ill 

1.ebenigne
2.ebenedictorye
3.eJ,enevolente
4.ebona fidee
5.edictatoriale
6.eplacatorye
7.eimplacablee
8.eplacide
9.ecomplacente




PLAK'-Q-tawr-ee or 

PLAY'-k今tawr-ee

PLAK'畴今切Ior PLAY勺Q-b31im-PLAK'令切Ieor im-PLAY'-k今切lplak'今BIL＇今teeeor play'-k今BIL＇今teeim-plak'七BIL＇七teeeor 

im-play'-k今BIL'今teee
PLAS'-id 
pl心ID'.tee
kQm-PLAY'心9nt

k匀n-PLAY'一S9nsekQm-PLA Y'-sQn-see 
kon'-do-NA Y'一sh叩e

a.ewishing good things (for an-other) ; well disposede
b.edomineering; giving orders inea manner permitting no re-fusale
c.enot to be soothed or paci-fied; unyielding to pity or en-

treaty 

d.etending, or intended, to pa<:-ify, to soothe, or to changeehostility to friendlinesse

e.ekindly, good-na血ed;enotecancerouse
f.ecalm, unruffled,.undisturbede
g.eself-satisfied; smuge
h.eof the nature of, or relatingeto, blessingse
i.ein good faith; sincere; valide




KEY: 1-e,2-h,3-a,4-i,5-b,6-d, 7--c, 8-f, 9-g 

Can you work with the words? 1111 
1.obenevolenceoa.orecipient of money, kindness,oetc.o
2.obenefactionob.freew沮
3.obeneficiaryo
c.oact of overlooking, or of for-

4.oinfidelityod.ofaithfuJnesso
5.ovolitionoe.s亚satisfaction;osmugnesso
6.oplacationof.ocalmnesso
7.ofidelityog.oact of pacifying, or of tum-ing hostility or anger intoo





出endlyofeelingso
8.ocondonationoh.oattitude of wishing things for anothero
9.oplacidityoi.ofaitblessn芍S 10.complacen勺


j.ogood deed; act of charity orokindnesso

1.oAre benedictio芯 givenoin houses ofo
邓S
2.oIs it pleasant to be the recipient of aoYES ben啡'centoact? YESYES

3.oAre kind people benevolent?o
4.oDo placatory gestures often healowounds and soothe disgruntled friends?o
5.oAre some unambitious peopleoYES complacent?o

YESYESYES
6.Does 
beni;即切showmalice?o

7.Is 
a benefaction an act of philanthro如o



8.oIs an implacable foe of corruptiono
NO 
likely to co叫oneocorrupt acts?


Can you recall the words?  
1.etending to give orderse2. act of overlooking (an offense,e吐．）e3.ellJ劝eldinglyehostile; beyond.esoothing; relentless; pitilesse4.eintended to soothe or,epacify (adj.)e 1.eDe2.3. or  
229  



9.eIs a bona fide offer made insincerely?eYES NO 
10.eDoes a benignant attitude indicateeYES NO、
Do you understand the words? (II) 
1.
benign玉tefuleSAME-
OPPOSITE 2.ebenignant-kindlye
SAME OPPOSITE 3.ebenediction-maledictione
SAME OPPOSITE 
4.ebenefactor--e:vildoereSAME OPPOS汀EeS.beneficiary一世:vereSAME OPPOSITE 6.ebenevolent-well disposedSA血eOPPOSITE 7.bona妥valide
-SAMEeOPPOSITE 8.:6.delity-unfaithfulnesseSAMEeOPPOSITE 

9.einfidel-true believerSA皿e
OPPOSITE 
10.edictatorial-submissiveeSAMEeOPPOSTI习1・e
11.eplacative--pacifyingSA血eOPPOSITE 
12.eimplacable--unyielding已 
13.eplacid-caJme
SAMEeOPPOSITE
牛 
14.ecomplacent-discontentedSA血eOPPO虹Ee
15.econdonation-forgivenessSA皿eOPPOSITE 









5.eone's desire, wishes, or unforced
哑 

6.ecalmnesse
7.eself-satisfaction; smugnesse
8.enon-believer in the"true"ereligione
9.ekindly; well disposede
10.eunfaithfulnesse
11.einvolving a blessing (adj.)e
12.edoing something good orekind (adj.)e
13.efaithfulnesse
14.esincere; valid; in good faithe
15.eone who does somethingegood, kind, or charitablee(for another)e
16.ea kind or charitable deede16. Be





KEY:・ 1-dictatorial, 2-condonatiori, 3-implacable, 4-'placatory or placative, 5-volition, 6-placidity, 7-complacence or complacency, 8-i血del,e・9-benign, benignant, or benevo-

CHAPTER REVIEW 
A.eDo you recognize the words?e

1.eTo belittle:e

(a)etitillate, (b) disparage, (c) adulatee



2.eTo be purposely confusing:e(il.) equivocate, (b) obviate, (c) proscribee
3.eTo work to the disadvantage of:e

(a)emalign, (b) militate, (c) placatee

4.eTo slander:e
(a)emali
gn, (b) condone, (c) placatee

5.eLack of equality:e. (a) parity, (b) disparity, (c) ambiguity
6.ePhrase that may have two interpretations, one of them indeli-cate or off-color:e

(a)eequivocation, (b) ambiguity, (c) double entendr.e
7.eHateful:e
(a)emalignant, (b) benignant, (c) malaisee
8.Ill w诅：e(a)malaise, (b) malevolence, (c) maleficencee
9.eKindly:(a)ebenevolent, (b) placid, (c) complacente

10.eInflexibly hostile:e
(a)eimplacable, (b) placatory, (c) militante
11.eGiv.ing orders imperiously:e

(a) benedictory, (b) dictatorial, (c) adulatorye

B.eCan you recognize roots?e
ROOT MEANING EXAMPLE 
1.epare
parity 
2.eaequus (equ一）eequivocal
3.evox, vocisevocal 
4.enox, noctisenocturnal 
5.elibraeequilibrist 
6.elatus, lateriseequilateral


1.eequuseequine 

231 

8.opediso
9.opaidos (ped一）

10.oferoo
11.oma即匹 
12.oscribo, scriptuso
13.omanuso
14.oposto
15.oviao
16.omilitiso
17.omaluso・o18. dico, dictuso

19.ovoloo
20.ofacio (fee-, fie一，o
-fy) 

21.obonuso
22.ofideso
23.ophoneo
24.oplac-
25.odonoo

pedestrian pedagogue vociferous 
magnifyproscribe 
manuscript postscript trivial 
militate 
malefactor 
dictatbrial volition 
benefactor 且ctionosimplifybona fide fidelityDictaphone placate donation 
KEY: 1--equal, 2勺ual,o3-voice, 4-night, ・ 5-balance, 6-side, 7-horse, 8-foot, 9竺cl,o1.叩． bear,o11-large,o12-write, 13-hand, 14--after, 15:..road, 16-soldier,o17-bad, 18-say, tell, 19-wisb, 20-do, make, 21-good,o22-faith, 23-sound, 24-please, soothe, pacify, 25-giveo

TEAS胶QUESTIONS FOR THE AMATEUR E1Y从OLOGIST 

1.oKeeping in mind the roots animus in叨皿nimityoand magnusoin Magnavox or血四y,ocan you combine these two roots tooform a noun meaning, etymologically, largeness of mind?o
Can you figure out the adjective form, ending in-0匹，ofothe noun you have constucted? 



2.eIf equilateral means equal-sided, can you construct an adjec-tive meaning two-sided?e
3.eTrans-is a prefix meaning across. Build a verb meaning toewrite across (from one form or language to another):e
4.eWhat disease was so named on the erroneous assumption thateit was caused by "bad air?"e
5.eFacio may appear in English words as fee-. Using the prefixecon-, together, can you form a noun sometimes used as a synonyme


together")?e


(Answers in Chapter I 8) 





You have been adding, over the past twenty-three sessions; hundreds of words to your vocabulary; you have been learning hundreds of prefixes, roots, and suffixes that make it possible 
for you to figure out the meaning of many unfamiliar words you may come across in your reading. As time 
goes on and you notice more and more of the words you have studied whenever you read, 
c;>r whenever you listen to lectures, the radio, or TV, the thrill of reco驴itioneplus the imme-diate comprehension of complex ideas will provide a dividend of incalculable value. You will hear these words in conversation, 
and you will begin to use them yourself, unself-consciously, whenever something you want to say is best expressed J:,y one of the words that -exactly verbalizes your thinking. Another priceless dividend! 



So keep on/ You are involved in a dividend-paying activity thate' will eventually make you intellectually rich. 

(End of Session 23) 


233 



Brief lntermi函oneFive 

HOW TO SPEAK NATURALLY 

Consider this statement by Louis Bromfield, a noted author:''Ifl, as a novelist, wrote dialogue for my characters which was meticu-lously grammatical, the result would be the creation of a speech which rendered the characters pompous-and unreal." 
And this one by Jacques B血血，formereliterary critic for Harper's:"Speech, after all, is in some measure an expression of character, and flexi'bility in its use is a good way to tell・ your friends from the robots." 

Consider also this puckish remark by the late Clarence Darrow: "Even if you do learn to speak correct English, who are you going 



These are typical reactions of professional people to the old re-strictions of formal English grammar. Do the actual teachers of English feel the same way1.Again, some typical statements: 

rules, by 
then Pro-fessor of English at the Greeley, Colorado, College of Education. "All th可canedo is observe the customs of cultivated and educated people and report their findings." 

"Grammar is only an analysis after_ the facts, a post-mortem on usage," said Stephen Leacock in How To Write. "Usage comes :6rst and usage must rule." 
One way to discover current trends in usage is to poll a 
cross 



section of people who use-the language professionally, inquiring as to their op血oneof the acceptability, in everyday speech, of certain specific and controversial expressions. A questionnaire I prepared recently was answered by eighty-two such people--thirty-one au-thors, seven book reviewers, thirty-three editors, and eleven pro-fessors of English. The results, some of which will be detailed below, may posi;ibly ptove startling to you if you have been condi-tioned to believe, as most of us have, that correct English is rigid, unchangeable, and exclusively dependent on grammatical rules. 

TEST YOURSELF 
1.eCalifornians boast of the healthy climatee
RIGHT WRONG of-their state.e
2.eHer new novel is not as good as her firsteRIGHT WRONG one.e
3.eWe can't hardly believe ite


RIGHT 叩ONG 
4.eThis is her.e
5.w如 
areeyou waiting for?eRIGHT RIGHT 叩ONG叩ONG

6.ePlease take care of whomever is waiting.e
RIGHT 

叩ONG 
7.eWhom would'you like to be if youeRIGHT 叩ONG weren't yourself?e
8.eMy wife has been robbed.eRIGHT WRONG 
9.eIs this desert fattenin'/1eRlGHT 叩ONG 


1.eCalifornians boast of the healthy climate of their state.

血H'i'.eThere is a distinction, says formal grammar,・ be饭eenehealthy and healthful. A person can be healt"'千一Ieam still quoting the rule-if he possesses good health. But climate must be health-ful, since it is conducive to health. 
This distinction is sometimes observed in writing but rarely in everyday speech, as you have probably noticed. Even the di啦onariesehave stopped, splitting hairs-th可P中血youe・to say healthy ・ no m:atter 
which of the two meanings you intend. 

"Healthy climate" was accepted as current, educated usage by twenty-six of the tbirty-thr妇 editors.・who answered ・the ques-


tionnaire, six of the seven book reviewers, nine of the eleven pro-fessors of English, and twenty of the thirty-one authors. The earlier distinction, in short, is rapidly becom迪obsolete.e
2.eHer new novel is not as good as her first one.e
RIGHT. If you have studied formal grammar, you will recall thateafter a negative verb the "proper''eword is .o, not as. Is this rule observed by educated speakers? Hardly ever: 
In reference to the sentence under discussion, author Thomas 
W. Duncan remarked: "l always say一andwrite-心，mucheto the distress of my publisher's copyreader. But the fellow is a wretched purist." 
The tally on this use of as showed seventy-four for, only eight against. 

3. We can't hardly believe it.e

WRONG. Of the eighty-two professional people who answeredemy questionnaire, seventy-six rejected this sentence; it is evident that can't hardly is far from acceptable in educated speech. Pre-ferred usage: We can hardly believe it. 
4.eThis is her.e
WRONG. This substitution of her where the rule requires sheewas rejected by fifty-seven of my eighty-two respondents. Para-doxically enough, although "It's me" and "This is me" are fully established in educated speech, "This is here''still seems to be con-demned by the majority of cultivated speakers. Nevertheless, the average person, I imagine, may feel a bit uncomfortable saying 
”
―
"This is sheei. sounds almost too sophisticated. 

This is more than an academic problem. If the voice at the other end of a telephone conversation makes the opening move with "I'd lik,e to speak to Jane Doe[your name, for argument's sake]," you are, unfortunately, on the horns of a very real di-lemma. "This is she''may sound prissy-''Thiseis he户mayegive the impression. that you're uneducated. Other choices are equally doubtful. "Talking!" is suspiciously businesslike if the call comes to your home, and "I am Jane Doe!" may make you feel like the opening line of a high school tableau. The need for a decision arises several times in a busy day--and, I am sorry to report, the English language is just deficient enough not to be of much help. I wonder how it would be if you just grunted affably? 




5.eWho are you waiting for?e
RIGHT. Formal grammar not only requires whom but demandsethat the word order be changed to:''For whom are you ・waiting?" (Just try talking with such formality on everyday occasions and see haw long you'll keep your friends.) 
Who is the normal，四ulareform as the first word of a sentence, no matter what the grammatical construction; 
and an opinion by 
Kyle Crichton, a well-known magazine editor, is 
-typical of the way many educated people feel. Mr. Crichton says: "The most loathsome word (to me at least) in the English language is whom. You can always tell a half-educated buffoon by the care he takes in working the word in. When he starts it, I know I am faced with a pompous illiterate who is not going to have・ me long as com-pany." 
The score for acceptance of the sentence as it stands (with who) was sixty-six out of eighty-two. If, like most unpedantic speakers, you prefer who to whom for informal occasions, or if you feel as strongly about whom as Mr. Crichton does, you will be happy to hear that modem trends in English are all on your side. 


6.ePlease talce care of whomever is waiting.e
WRONG. Whomever is awkward and a little silly in this sentenceeand brings to mind Franklin P.,Adams'famous remark on gram-mar: "'Whom are you?'asked Cyril, for he had been to night school." It is also contrary to grammatical rule. People who are willing to be sufficiently insufferable to use whomever in this con-struction have been tempted into error by the adjacent word of. They believe that since they are following a preposition with an objective pronoun they are speaking impeccable grammar. In ac-tuality, however, whomever is not the object of the preposition of but the subject of the verb is waiting. Preferable form: Please take care of whoever is waiting. 

7.eWhom would you like to be if you weren't yourself?e
WRONG. Here is another and typical example of the damageewhich an excessive reverence for whom can do to an innocent per-
son's speech. Judged by grammatical rule, whom is incorrect in this sentence (the verb to be requires who); judged by normal speech patterns, it is absurd. This use of whom probably comes from an abortive attempt to sound elegant. 







237 

8. My wife has been robbed. 
lUGHT―if something your wife owns was taken by means of thievery. However, if your wife herself waskidnapped, or in-some waytalked into leavingyo11; she wasstolen,not robbed. To rob is toabscond with the contents of something-to steal is towalk off with the thing i缸elf. Needless 
to say, both forms of activity are highly antisocial and equally illegal. 

9. Is this desert fattening? 

WRONG. The dessert that is faU呻g is spelled with two s's. Withones, it's a desert, like the Sahara. Remember the two s's in dessert by thinking how much you'd like two portions, if only youF waistline permitted. 






10 

HOW TO TALK ABOUT VARIOUS.SPEECH HABITS 
(Sessions 24-27) 


TEASER PREVIEW 

What adjective describes people who: 
.are disinclined to conversation? 
. are brief and to the point in their speech? 
. are blocked or incoherent in their speech? 



. show by their speech that they are trite and unimagi叩tive? 
. use more words than necessary? 
. are forcefully compelling and logical in their speech? 
. talk rapidly and fluently? 

.are no切and clamorous? 
. are talkative? 






239 

SESSION 24 

Perhaps some of your richest and most satisfying experiences have been with people to whom you can just talk, talk, talk. As you speak, previously untapped springs of ideas and emotions begin to 丑ow;eyou hear yourself saying things you never thought you knew. 

What幻dseof people mi吐tey叩 findeyourself in conversation with? In this chapter we start by e邓miningeten types, discovering the adjective that aptly describes each one. 

IDEAS 
1.esaying littlee

There are some people who just don't like to talk. It's not thatethey prefer to listen. Good listeners hold up their end of the con-versation delightfully-with appropriate facial expressions; with empathetic smiles, giggles, squeals, and sighs at just the right血ee;eand with encomaging nods or phrases like "Go on氏e“Fantastic!",e.. And then what happened?" 
These people like neither to tallc nor to listen主eyeact as if conversation is a bore, even a painful waste of time. Try to engage them, and the best you may expect for your e仔ortseis a vacant stare, a noncommittal grunt, or an impatient silence. Finally, in frustration, you give up, thinking. "Are they self-conscious? Do they hate people? Do they hate me?" 


The adjective: taciturn 
2.esaying little-meaning muche
There is a well-known anecdote about Calvin Coolidge, who,ewhen he was President, was often called (though probably not to his face) "Silent Q矿：





A young newspaperwoman was sitting next to him at a banquet, so the story goes, and turned to him mischievously. "
Mr. Coolidge," she said, "I have a bet with my editor that I can get you to say more than two words to me this evening." 
"You lose," Coolidge rejoined simply. 

The adjective: laconic 
3; when,the words won't come 
Under the pressure of some strong emotion
-;:-for example一peopleemay find it difficult, or even impossible, to utter words, to.get their feelings unjum.bled and untangled enough to form understandable sentences. They undoubtedly have a lot they want to say, but the best they can do is sputter! 



4.emuch talk, little sensee
Miss Bates, a character in Emma, a novel by Jane Austen:e
"So obliging of you! No, we should not have heard, if it had noteb.een for this particular circumstance, of her being able to 
come here sci soon. My mother is so delighted! For she is to be three months with us at least. Three months, she says so, positively, as I am going to have the pleasure of reading to you. The case is, you see, that the Campbells are going to Ireland. Mrs. Dixon has per-suaded her father and mother to come over and !!ee her directly. I was going to say, but, however, different countries, and so she wrote a very urgent letter to her mother, or her father, I declare I do not know which it was, but we shall see presently in Jane's let-ter... " 
The adjective: garrulous 
5.・ unoriginale

Some people are completely lacking in originality and imagina-tion-and their talk shows it. Everything they say is trite, hack-






neyed, commonplace, humorless-their speech patterns are full of cliches and stereotypes, their phraseology is without sparkle. 
The adjective: banal 

6.ewords, words, words!e

They talk and talk and talk一it'senot so much the quantity youeobject to as the repetitiousness. They phrase,. rephrase, and re-rephrase their thoughts-using far more words than necessary, overwhelming you with words, dro叩迪youewith th血，卫1lDtileyour only thought is how to escape, or maybe how to die. 

The adjective: verbose 
7.ewords in quick successione
They are rapid, fluent talkers1 the words seeming to roll off theiretongues with such ease and lack of effort, and sometimes with such copiousness, that you listen with amazement. 

The adjective: voluble 8.ewords that convincee
They express their ideas persuasively, forcefully, brilliantly, andein a way that calls for wholehearted assent and agreement from an intelligent listener. 

The adjective: cogent 

9.ethe sound and the furye
Their talk is loud, noisy, clamorous, vehement What may beelacking in content is compensated for in force and loudness. 
The adjective: vociferous 

10.equantitye
They talk a IQ.t--a whole lot. Th守mayebe voluble, vociferous,e




242 


garrulous, verbose, but never inarticulate, taciturn, or laconic. No matter. It's the quantity and continuity that are most conspicuous. "Were you vaccinated with a phonograph needle?" is the question you are tempted to ask as you listen. 

The adjective: loquacious 

These ten words revolve around the idea of varying kinds and ways of talkin
g and not talking. Many of the adjectives are close in meaning, but each contains its unique difference. 

QUALITY 
ADJECTIVE 
1. silence, unresponsiveness taciturn 
2. economy, brevity, meaningfulness laconic 
3. awkwardness, sputtering, incoherence 
inarticulate 
4. rambling chatter garrulous 
5. hackneyed, unoriginal phraseology banal 
6. wordiness, repetitiousness 
verbose 
7. fluency
, rapidity voluble persuasiveness cogent 





9. noise, vehemence vociferous 
10. talkativeness 




USING THE WORDS 
Can you pronounce the words? 
1. taciturne
2.elaconice
3. inarticulate

、 
4.egarrulo匹 

5.ebanale
6.everbosee


1.evolublee
8.ecogente
9.evociferouse

10.eloquacio匹loquacious 
TAS仁a-tum比KON'-ik
畸
in'-ahr-TIK.'-y吵tGA皿－牛laseBAY'-nal var-BOS' VOL勺心baleKO'-jant v6-SIF＇妞心 Io-KWAY'-sh郊








Can you work with the words? 


1. taciturne
a.echattering meaninglesslye

2.elaconiceb.ewordye
3.einarticulateec.etrite, hackneyed, unoriginale
4. garruloused.efluent and rapide
5.ebanalee.en.?isY, louqe
6.everbosee
f.esputtering unintelligiolye
7.evolubleeg.etalkativee
8.ecogenteh.ebrilliantly compelling, per-suasivee



9. vociferousei.eunwilling to engage in con-
Do you understand the words? 
1.eDo taciturn people usually make otherseYES NO feel comfortable and welcome?e
2.eDoes a laconic speaker use. more wordse
YES NO than necessary?e
3.eDoes rage make some peopleeYES NO inarticulate?e
4.eIs it interesting to listen to garrulous olde
YES NO men? 
5.eDo banal speakers show a great deal ofeYES NO originality? 
6.eIs verbose a complimentary term?eYES NO 
7.eIs it easy to be voluble when you don'teYES NO know the subject you are talking about?e
8.eDo unintelligent people usually makee





NO 

cogent statements?e

9.eIs a vociferous demand ordinarily madeeYES NO by a shy, quiet person?e

10.o
Do loquacious people spend more timeoYES NO tallcing than listening?o






KEY: -1-no, 2-no, 3-yes, 4-no, 5-no, 6-no, 7-no, 8-no, 9-no, 1o:.._yes 


Can you recall the words? 

Do you know that new nerve patterns are formed by repeated actions? As a very young child, you tied your shoelaces and but-toned your clothing with great concentratioO-:.-tbe activity was directed, controlled, purposeful, exciting. As you grew ・older and more skillful, you tied and buttoned with scarcely a thought of what you were doing. Y:our fingers flew about'tbeir task almost au-tomatically―for the habit bad formed a nerve pattern and the ac-


tion needed Iittie if any conscious attention. 
That's simple enough to understand. If you do not remember your own experiences; you can observe the phenomenon of strug-gling with a skill, mastering it, and finally making it a self-starting habit by watching any young child. Or you can simply take my word for it.o. 
You need not take my word.for the 
way a mastery of new words is acquired. You can see in yourself, as you work with this book, bow adding words to your vocabulary is exactly analogous to a child's mastery of sboelacing. First you struggle with the con-cepts; then you eventually master them; finally, by frequent work with the new words (now you see the reason for the great number of exercises, the repetitious writing, saying, thinking) you build up new nerve patterns and you begin to use, the new words with scarcely any consciousness of what you are doing. 
Watch this common but important phenomenon closely as you do the next exercise. Your total absorption of the material so far 






has given you complete mastery of our ten basic words. Prove that you are beginning to form new nerve patterns in relation to. these 
s
words by writing the one that fitoeach brief definition. The more quicldy you think.of the word that applies, the・ surer you can be .that using these words will soon be as automatic and unself-con-



scious as putting on your shoes or buttoning/zipping yourself up in 
the morning.  
1.otalkativeo2.onoisy, vehement, clamorouso3: incoherent; sputteringo4.ogabbing ceaselessly and witholittle meaningo5.odisinclined to conversationo6.otalking in hackneyedo L234 56 VGTB  
phraseologyo 
7.oshowing a fine economy in theo 7.  
use of words  
8.oforceful and convincingo 8.  
9.otalking rapidly and fluentlyo 9.oV.o 
10.ousing more words thano 10.oV.o 
necessaryo 
KEY:  I-loquacious,  2-vociferous,  3-inarticulate; 4-garrulous,  

5-taciturn, 6-banal, 7-laconic, 8--<:<>gent, 9-voluble,o10-verboseo
(End of Session 24) 

SESSION 25 

ORIGINS AND RELATED WORDS 

1.oabout keeping one's mouth shuto
H you let your mind play over some of.the taciturn people youoknow, you will realize that their abnormal disinclination to con"-versationmakes them seem morose, sullen, and unfriendly.. Cal Coolidge's taciturn切wasoworld-famous, and no one, I. am sure, 


246 


ever conceived of him as cheerful, overfriendly, or particularly so-ciable. There are doubtless many possible causes of such verbal rejection of the world: perhaps lack of self-assurance, feelings of inadequacy or hostility, excessive seriousness or introspection, or just plain having nothing 
to say. Maybe, in Coolidge's case, he was saving up his words-after he did not "choose to run" in 1928, he wrote a daiiy column for the New York Herald Tribune at a rumored price of two dollars a word-and, according to most critics (probably all Democrats), be had seemed wiser when he kept silent. Coolidge hailed. from New England, and taciturnity 
(tas-g;.TURN＇仑tee)oin that part of the country, so some people say, is considered・ a virtue. Who knows, the cause'may be geo-graphical and cl血atic,orather than psy:chological. 

Tacit印nois from i Latin verb taceo, to be silent, and is one of those words whose full meaning cannot be expressed by any other combination <>f syll.les. It has many synonyms, among them si-lent, uncommunicative, reticent, reserved, secretive, close-lipped, and close-mouthed;_ but 110 other word indicates the permanent, 加bitual,oand temperamental disinclination to talk implied by taci一otum. 


2.obetter left unsaido
Tacit (TAS'-it) derives also from taceo.o

Here is a man dying of cancer. He suspects what his disease is,oand everyone else, of course, knows. Yet he never mentions.the dread word, and no one who visits him ever breathes a syllable of it in his hearing. It is tacitly understood by all concerned. that 
the word will remain forever unspoken. 
(Such a situation today, however, may or may not be typical一 there appears to be ・ a growing tendency among physicians and family to be open and honest with people who are dying.) 
Consider another situation: 
An executive is engaging in extracurricular activities with her secretary. Yet during o伍ceotime they are as formal and distant as any two human beings can 
well be. Neither of them ever said to the other,''Now, look here, -we may be lovers after five o'clock, 










247 


but between nine and five we must preserve the utmost decorum, okay?" Such speech, such a verbal arrangement, is considered un-necessary―so we may say that the two have a tacit agreement (i.e., nothing was ever actually said) to maintain a complete 
employer-employee relationship during office hours. 
Anything t叱it,ethen, is unspoken, unsaid, not verbalized. We 
speak of a tacit agreement, arrangement, acceptance, rejection, 
as-
sent, refusal, etc. A person is never called tacit. 
The noun is tacitness (TAS'-it-n::is). (Bear in mind that you 
can transform any adjective into a noun by adding -ness, though 
in many cases there may be a more sop伍sticated,eor more com-
mon, noun form.) 

Changing the a of the root taceo to i, and adding the prefix re一，e
again, and the adjective suffix-ent, we can construct the English 
word reticent (RET＇一今S:mt).e
Someone is reticent who prefers to keep silent, whether out of 
shyness, embarrassment, or fear of revealing what should not be 
revealed. (The idea of "againness叮nethe prefix has been lost in 
the current meaning of the word.) 
We have frequently made nouns out of-ent adjectives. Write 
or, less commonly, 


3.etalk, talk, talk!e
Loquacious people love to talk. This adjective is 
not necessarilyea put.down, but the implication, when you so characterize such people, is that you wish they would pause for breath once in a while so that you can get your licks in. The noun is loquacity (lo-KWAS屯ee),eor, of course, loquaciousness. 
The word derives from Latin loquor, to s,peak, a root found also in: 

1.soliloq叩(s:i-LIL＇仑kwee)--aspeecheto oneself (loquoreplus solus, alone), or, etymologically, a speech when alone. 
We often talk to ourselves, but usually silently, the words going through our minds but not actually passing our lips. 
The term so-






liloquy is commonly applied to utterances made in a play by chat-acters who speaking their thoughts aloud so the audience 
won't have to are guess. The soliloquist (s今LIL'-a-kwist)emay be alone; or other members of the cast may be present on stage, but of course th守don'tehear what's being said, because they're not supposed to know. Eugene O'Neill made novel uses of soliloquies in Mourning Becomes Electra一theecharacters made honest dis-closures of their feelings and thoughts to the audience, but kept the other players in the dark. 

The verb is to soliloquize (s今LIL＇今kw讫）．e
2.eA ventriloquist (ven-1RII..'-a-kwist) is one who can throwehis voice. A listener thinks the sound is coming from some source other than the person speaking. The combining root is Latineventer, ventris, belly; etymologically, ventriloquism (ven-TRIL'-
今kwiz勺m)eis the art of "speaking from the belly." The adjective 
the verb wm end? Write the verb: 

3.eColloquial (k吐O'-kwee-al)ecombines loquor, to -speak,ewith the prefix con-. (Con-is spelled col-before a root starting with l; cor-before a root starting with r; :com-before a root start-ing with m, p, orb.) When people spe吐togetherethey are engag-ing in conversation--and their language is usually more informal and less rigidly grammatical than what you might expect in writing or in public addresses. Colloquial patterns are perfectly correct一 they are simply informal, and suitable to everyday conversation. 








A colloquialism (ka-LO'-kwee-a-liz.am), therefore, is a con-versational-style expression, like "He hasn't got any" or "Who are you going with?" as contrasted to the formal or literary "He has none" or "With whom are you going?" Colloquial English is the English you and I talk on everyday occasions-it is not slangy, 叫gar,eor illiterate. 

4.eA circumlocution (sur-kam-lo-KY氓'-shan)eis, etymo-logically, a "talking around" (circum-, around). Any way of ex-pressing an idea that is roundabout or indirect is circumlocuto疗e(sur'-k叩1-LOK'-y今ta对.ee)一youeare now familiar-with the 


common 
adjective suffix-0吓



249 

REVIEW OF ETYMOLOGY 


PREFIX, ROOT, SUFFIX MEANING ENGLISH WORD 

1. taceo to be silent noun suffix 

3. -ness noun suffix 
4. -ent adjective suffix 
5. -ence,-ency noun suffix 
6. re-again 

1. loquor to speak 
8. solus alone 
9. -ist o:newho 
10. -ize verb suffix 

11. venter, ventris belly 
12. -ic adjective suffix 
13. -ous adjective suffix 
14. con-, c.l-, com-, with, together 



cor-15.-al adjective suffix 
16.-i血 noun suffix 




WORKING WITH THE WORDS 


Can you pronounce the words? 
1. taciturnity 
2. tacit 
3. tacitness 
4. reticent 
5. reticence 
6. reticen守









1.oloquacio血esso
8.oloquacityo
9.osoliloq叮o
10.osoliloquisto11.soliloq血eo


12.oventriloquisto
13.oventriloquismo
14.oventriloquistico

15: ventriloquizeo
16.ocolloquialo11.collo平dalismo
18.ocircumlocutiono
19.ocircumlocutoryo


lo-KWAY'-sh:.is-n笠 lo-KWAS'-a-tee S今LIL'仑kweeoS千L江＇－a-kwistoS午LIL＇七kw讫＇ ven心血'-.kwist_oven-TRIL＇心-kwiz-:.imoven-tril'今KWIS'-tilcoven-TRIL＇心kW讫＇ k今LO'-kwee-:.ilok千LO'-kwee-a-liz-:.imosur-k:.im-Io-KYdc':>'一S加n亚r.-k:.im-LOK'-y今tawr'一eeo

Can you work with the words? 
1.otaciturnityo
2.otacitnesso
3.oreticenceo
4.oloquacityo
5.osoliloquyo
6.oventriloquismo
7.ocolloquialismo




a.ounwillingness to talk, or dis-close, out of fear, shyness, re-serve, etc.o
b.otalking, or a speech,''to one-self''o
c.oart of throwing one's 
voiceo
d.ounwillingness to. inoconversationo

e.oinformal expression used inoeveryday conversationo
f.ostate of being understoodothough not actually .xpressedo
g.oa talking around; method ofotalking indirectly or in aoroundabout wayo


Do you understand the words? 
1.eA tacit understanding is put into words.eTRUE 
FALSE 
2.eInhibited people are seldom reticenteTRUE FALSE about expressing anger.e
3.eA soliloquist expresses his thoughtseTRUE FALSE aloud.e
4.eA ventriloquistic performance on stageeTRUE FALSE involves a dummy who appears to be talking. 
5. A colloquial style of writing is TRUE 
FALSE ungrammatical. 
6. Circumlocutory speech is direct and TRUE FALSE forthright. 



1.eInarticulate people are generally given toeTRUE FALSE loquaciousness. 

KEY: 1-F, 2-F, 3-T, 4-T, 5于，6-F,e7-F, 8-F 


Can you recall the words? 

1.eto speak to oneselfe1. 
2.eto throw one's voicee
3.eunwillingness to engage ineconversatione
4.eunspokene4.eT.e
5.ereferring to an indirect,es. roundabout style ofeexpression("订．）e
6.esuitable for informale
6. conversatione


7.etalkativenesse7. or 
8.ereluctance to express one'sefeelings or thoug血eor 





9.'a speech to oneself, especially 9. in a play 
10.ean indirect, roundaboute10.eC.eexpressione
KEY: 1一soliloquize,e2-ventriloquize, 3一taciturnity,e4-tacit, 5-circumlocutory,-6--colloquial, 7-loquaciousness or lo-quacity, ・ 8-reticence or reticency, 9-soliloquy, 10-cir-cumlocutione

s应SION 26 


ORIGINS AND RELATED WORDS 

1.ea Spartan virtuee
In ancient Sparta, originally known as Laconia, the citizensewere long-suff呻g,ehard-bitten, stoical, and military-minded, and were even more noted for their economy of speech than Ver-monters, if .t is严ssible.eLegend has it that when Philip of Macedonia was storming the gates of Sparta (or Laconia). he 
sent a message to the besieged king saying. "If we capture your city we will burn it to the ground." A one-word answer came back:''If." It was now probably Philip's turn to be speechless, though history does not record his reaction. 
you eat it here, or take it with you?" "Both," was the laconic reply. 


253 


Or like the woman who was watching a lush imbibing dry mar-tinis at a Third Avenue bar in New York City. The drunk do\\'.ned the contents of each cocktail glass at one gulp, daintily nibbled and swallowed the bowl, then finally tumed the glass over and ate the base. The stem he threw into a corner. This amazing gustatory feat went on for half an hour, until a dozen stems were lying shat-tered in the comer, and the drunk had chewed and swallowed enough bowls and bases to start a glass factory. He suddenly turned to the lady and asked belligerently, "I suppose you think rm cuckoo, don't you?" "Sure―the stem is the best part," was the laconic answer. 
(It was doubtless this same gentleman, in his accustomed state of intoxication, who found himself painfully weaving his way along Wilshire Boulevard in Beverly Hills, Californiaehe had
― 
somehow gotten on a TWA jetliner instead of the subway―when he realized, almost too late, that he was going to bump into a smartly dressed young woman who had just stepped out of her Mercedes-Benz to go window-shopping along the avenue. He quickly veered left, but by some unexplainable magnetic attraction the woman. veered in the same. direction, again making collision apparently inevitable. With an adroit maneuver, the drunk swung to the right―the lady, by now thoroughly disoriented, did the same. Finally both jammed on the brakes and came to a dead stop, face to face, and not six inches apart; and as the alcoholic fumes assailed the young lady's nostrils, she sneered at the reek-ing, swaying man, as much in frustration as in contempt: "Ohl How gauche!" "Fini矿wasebis happy response. "How goesh with you?" This answer, however, is not laconic, merely confused.) 
We have learned that "-ness, -ity, and -ism are suffixes that transform adjectives into nouns-and all three can be used with laconic: 

... with characteristic laconicness (I今KON'-ak-nas)e
... her usualco戌citye(lak＇今NIS'心－tee)e...his habitual laconism (l..AK'.niz-am) ... with, for him, unusual laconicism (l这ON'..siz勺m)

Alaco志meis also the expression itself that is pithy and concise, &!I the famous report from a naval commander in World War II: "Saw sub, sank same." 



2. brilliante
C0gent is a term of admiration. A cogent argument is well put,econvincing, hardly short of brilliant. Cogency (KO'-jan-see) shows a keen mind, an ability to think clearly and logically. The word derives from the Latin verb cogo, to drive together, compel, force. A cogent argument compels acceptance because of its logic, its persuasiveness, its appeal to one's sense of reason. 
3. back to talke
You will recall that loquor, to speak, is the source of loquacity,esoliloquy, ventriloquism, colloquialism, circumlocution. This root 
is also the base on which eloquent (EL'仑kwant),magniloquent (mag-Nil均－kw皿），andgrandiloquent (gran-DIL＇令-kwant)are built. The eloquent person speaks out (e-, from ex一，out),is vividly expressive, fluent; forceful, or persuasive in language ("the prose-cutor's eloquent plea to the jury"). The word is partially synony-mous with cogent, but cogent implies irresistible logical reasoning and intellectual keenness, while eloquent suggests artistic expres-sion, strong emotional appeal, the skillful use of language to move and arouse a listener. Magniloquent (magnus, large) and grandiloquent (grandis, grand) are virtually identical in meaning. Magniloquence or gran-diloquence is the use of high-flown, grandiose, even pompous Ian-guage; of large and impressive words; of lofty, flowery, or over-elegant phraseology. Home is a place of residence; wife:_is helpmate, helpmeet, or better half; women are the fair sex; chil-dren are offspring or progeny; a doctor is a member of the medi-cal fraternity; people are the species Homo sapiens, etc., etc. 
Lo_quacious, verbose, voluble, and garrulous people are all talk-ative; but each type, you will recall, has a special quality. 
If you are loquacious, you talk a lot because you like to talk and doubtless have a lot to say. 
If you are verbose, you smother your ideas with excess words, with such an overabundance of words. that your listener either drops into a state of helpless confusion or falls asleep. 


255 



If you are voluble, you speak rapidly, fluently, glibly, without hesitation, stutter, or stammer; you are vocal, verbal, and highly articulate. 

If you are iarruious, you talk constantl
y, and usually aimlessly and meaninglessly, about trifles. We often hear the word used in "a ga"ulous old man" or "a garrulous old woman," since in very advanced age the mind may wander and lose the ability to dis-criminate between the important and the unimportant, between the interesting and the dull. 
Verbose is from Latin verbum, word―the verbose person is wordy. Voluble comes from Latin volvo, volutus, to roll―words effort-lessly roll off the voluble speaker's tongue. And garrulous derives from Latin garrio, 
to chatter-aegarru-lous talker chatters away like a The suffix-如心 canebe added to all these adjectives to form nouns. Alternate noun forms end in -ity: 

verbosity 
volubility 
）garrulity （驴R仅L'-a-teee)e

4.eat largee
We discovered magnus, large, big, great, in Chapter 9, inediscussing Magnavox (etymologically,''big voice"),・ and find it again in magniloquent (etymologically, "talking bi旷）．Theeroot occurs in a number of other words: 

1.eMagnanimous (mag-NAN＇勺血）一big-hearted,egenerous,eforgiving (etymologically, "great-minded"). (Magnus plus animus, mind.) We'11 discuss this word in depth in Chapter 12. 
2.eMagnate (MAG'-nayt)一aeperson of great powereor influence, a big wheel, as a business mag血te.e
3.eMagnify-to make larger, or make seem larger (magnuseplus -fy from fac饥toemake), as in "magn(抒youreproblems." 


4.eMagnificent-magnus plus fie-, from facio.e
5.eMagnitude-magnus plus the common noun suffix -tude, asin fortitude, multitude, gr血tude,eetc. 
6.oMagnum (as of champagne 
or wine)-alarge bottle, gener-ally two fifths of a gallon.o. 
7.oMagnum opus (MAG'.ilam O'-pes)--etymologically, a "bigowork"; actually, the greatest work, or masterpiece, of an artist, writer, 
or composer. Op匹 isothe Latin word for work,・ the plural of opus is used in the English word opera, etymologically, "a number of works," actually a musical drama containing overture, singing, and other forms of music, i.e., many musical works. The 




verb form opero, to work, occ虹soin operate, co-operate, operator, etc. 

5.owords, words, words!o

Latin verbum is word. A verb is the important word in a sen-tence; verbatim (var-BAY'-tim) is word-for-word (a verbatim re-port). 

Verbal (VUR'一切I),oending in the adjective suffix-alo, may refer either to a verb, or to words in general (a verbal fight); or it may mean, loosely, oral or spoken, rather than written (verbal agree-mentoor contract); or, describing people (cr she is quite verbal"), it may,refer to a ready ability to put feelings or thoughts into words. 
Working from verbal, can you add a common verb suffix tq form a word meaning to put into words? 
Verbiage (VUR'-bee司）hasotwo meanings: an-excess of words ("Such verbiage!"); or a style or manner of using words (medical verbiage, military verbiage). 
6.oroll on, and on!o

Volvo, volutus, to roll, the source of voluble, is the root onowhich many important English words are based. 
Revolve (r:i-VOLV'）一rolloagain (and again), or keep turning round. Wheels revolve, the earth revolves around the sun, the cyl-inder of a revolver revolves. (The prefix is re-, back or again.) 
The noun is revolution (rev今L仅Y-sh:in),owhich can be one such complete rolling, or, by logical extension, a radical change of any sort (TV was responsible for a revolution in the entertain-ment industry), especially political (the American, or French, 






257 





Revolution). The adjective revolutio叩"(rev'-g.;匈伞n-air'-ee) introduces us to a new adjective suffix, -ary, as in contrary, discipli叩mostati叩ary,oimaginary, etc. (But -ary is sometimes also a noun suffix, as in dictio叩ry,ocommentary, etc.) 

Add different prefixes to volvo to construct two more English words:o. 

1.oinvolve---etymologically, "roll in" ("I didn't want to get in-volved!"): Noun: -involvement. 
2.
evolve（今VOLV')--etymologically,o"roll out" (e-, out);ohence to unfold,・ or gradua1ly develop ("The final plan evolved from some informal discussions"; "The political party evolved from a group of interested citizens who met frequently to protest govermnent actions"). 


By analogy with the forms derived from revolve, can you con-struct the noun and adjective of evolve? Noun: Adjective: 

REVIEW OF ETYMOLOG.Y 
PREFIX, ROOT, SUFFIX 
1.oLaconiao
Sparta 
2.o-nesso
3.o-ismo
4.o-ityo
5.oe. (ex一）oout 
6.o
-ento

1.o-enceo
8.omagnusobig . 9. grandis grand 
10.ovetbumoword 
11.ovolvo, volutusoto roll 
12.ogarrioo
13.oanimuso
14.o-fyo
15.o-tudeo
16.oopusowork 





17.-opero-to work 18.-al-adjective suffix 

19.--ize-verb suffix 
20. re-again, back 
21. -ary-adjective suffix 
22.-in-in 


USING THE WORDS 

Can you pronounce the words? II) 
L laconicity lak'-a-NIS'七tee-

2.-laconismLAK:'－a-niz-am 3. laconicism
1今KON'－今siz-am-4.. eloquent-EL'-a-kwant 
5.-eloquence-

EL'-a-kwans 
6.-mag.iloquentniag-N止＇令kwant-
7.-magniloquence-mag-NIL'-a-kwans 
8.-grandiloquentgran-DIL'仑kwant-
9. grandiloquence-gran-DIL＇一今kwans-
10. verbosityvar-BOS'－今tee-
11.-volubilityvol'-y今BIL'一千tee-12.-garrulity-ga-ROO＇一1今tee-


13. 
cogency-KO'-jan-see 
Can you pronounce the words? (Ill 
1. magnanimous 
mag-NAN'-a-mas 
2.-magnate-MAG'-riayt 
3.-magnum opusMAG'-nam O'-p邻-
4. verbatim-var-BA Y'-tiin 
5.-verbal-VUR'-bal 
6. verbalizeVUR'-b今订云-
7.-verbiage VUR'-bee司-
8. revolve-.VOLV' 
9. revolution rev'-.L.'-sh叩-
10. revolutionaryrm／-:i-LOO'sha-nair-ee 
11.eevolvee
12.eevolutione
13.eevolutionarye









Can you work with the words? II) 1. laconicity 

2.eeloquencee
3. magniloquence 
4.everbositye
5.evolubilitye
6.egarrulitye
7.emagnum opuse
8.emagnatee
9.erevolutione
10.eevolutione
11.ecogencye




a-VOLV' ev'于LOO'-shanev'心L仅'-sh己nair!-eee

a. floweriness, pompousness, oreelegance in speeche
b.eincessant chatter with littleemeaninge

c.ebig wheel; important or证e

fluential persone
d.egreat artistic work; master-piecee
e.ea gradual unfolding or devel-
opment; "a rolling out"e
f.e"a rolling round"; radicalechange; political upheavale
g. great economy in speecqe
h.efluency, ease, and/or rapid-ity of speeche
i.egreat, artistic, or emotionaleexpressivenesse
,e
j.ewordinesse
k.epersuasiveness through logic;ekeen-mindedness in reason-inge





KEY: 1-g, 2-i, 3-a, 4-j, 5-h, 6-b, 7-d,8七9-f,e10--e, 11-k 



Can you work with the words? (II) 
1.eIaconismea.eword for worde
2.everbiageeb.eto put into wor中e
3. verbalizeec.ecausing, or resulting from,eradical change; new and to-



・・ 
tally different 
260 
4.everbale
5.everbatime
6.erevolutionarye
7.eevolutionarye
8.egrandiloquente
9. eloquente




d.eresulting or developing grad-ually from (something)e
e.eexpressive; emotionally mov-inge
f.epithiness or economy of ex-pression; word or phraseepacked with meaninge
g. big-hearted; generous, forgiv-inge
h. referring or pertaining to, oreinvolving, words; oral, ratherethan writtene
i.eusing flossy, flowery, elegant,e




KEY: 1-f, 2寸，3-b,4-h,e5-a,6七e7-d,8-i,e9-e,10-g 

Do you understand the words? 
1. Is laconicism characteristic of a verboseespeak.er?e
2.eDoes a magniloquent speaker use short,esimple words?e
3.eDoes a frog evolve from a tadpole?e
4.eIs an eeloquent speaker interesting to listen io? 
5. Do verbose people use a lot ofeverbiage? 
6.eIs volubility characteristic of aneinarticulate person? 
7.Does
verbosi行showea careful andeeconomical use of.words? 

8.eIs a verbal person usually inarticulate?e
NO 
9.eIs a magnun opus one of the lessereYES NO works of a writer, artist, or composer?e


YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  


261 


10.oIsoam鸣nanimo匹 personoselfish andoYES. NO petty-minded?o
KEY: 1-no, 2-no, 3-yes, 4-yes, 5-yes, 6-no, 7-no, 8-no, 9-no, 10-noo
Can you recall the words? ing ing
djo
dayp
2.from,resultinincausoorgg,radical .aechng(ad/)o
1. g ado
rr 
1.
uo
allo
eloo
unf 
ol
(o
.), r
esulting,o
oo
d
evo

3.
3.oquality of conciseness andeconomy in the use 
of wordso
4.oexpressiveness in the use of words 
5.oturn round and roundo
6.oimportant person, as in theocommercial worldo
7.ounselfish; generous; noble inomotive; big-hearted; forgiving 
8.ousing words easiloy; vocal; articulate; referring to, oroinvolving, words; oral, ratherothan writteno
9.ostyloe of word usage; type of
words; overabundance ofowords 



excess words 
11.oelegance in word usageo
12.oquality of chattering on and on
about trivia, or with little meaning 
13.ofluency and ease in speecho



or or or 4. 
8.oV
甸 

9.oV.o

・10. V.o
11.oMoor G 12, G 
13.oV.o

262 



14.oword for wordo

14.
_v. 
15.omasterpiece; great artistic worko
16.opersuasiveness and forcefulnesso16.oin speech or writing throughoclosely reasoned logico


KEY: 1-evolutionary, 2-revolutionary, 3-laconism, laconicism, laconicity, or laconicness, 4--eloquence, 5-revolve, 6-mag-nate, 7-magnanimous, 8-verbal, 9-verbiage, 10-:verbosity, 
11-magniloquence or grandiloquence, 12-garrulity, 13-vol-
(End of Session 26) 



SESSION 27 

ORIGINS AND RELATED WORDS 

1.ofront and back--and uncleso

The ventriloquist appears to talk from the belly (venter, ventrisoplus loquor) rather th血throughothe lips (or such was the strange percepti!)n of the person who first used the word). 
Venter, ventris, belly; is the root on which ventral (VEN'-trgJ) and ventricle 
are built. The ventral side of an animal, for example, is the front or an-terior side--the belly side. 
A ventricle (VEN'士夺kgl)_isoa hollow organ or cavity, or, logi-cally enough, belly, as one of th. two chambers of the heart, or one of the four chambers of the brain. The ventricles of the heart are the lower chambers, and receive blood from the auricles, or upper chambers. The auricle (AW'-ra妞），so・onamed because it 








is somewhat ear-shaped (Latin auris, ear), receives blood from the veins; the auricles send the blood into the ventricles, which in turn pump the blood into the arteries. (It's all very complicated, but fortunately it works.) 
The adjective form of ventricle is ventricular (ven-TRIK'-ya. far), which may refer to a ventricle, or may mean having a belly-like bulge. 
Now that you see how ventricular is formed from ventricle, can you figure out the adjective of auricle? How about the adjective of vehicle? Of circle? 
No doubt you wrote auricular (aw-RIK＇一y今far),evehicular, and circular, and have discovered that nouns ending in -cle from ad-jectives ending ine-cular. 
So you can now be the first person on your block to figure out the adjective derived from: 
clavicle: 
cuticle: 
vesicle: 
testicle: 
uncle: 

The answers of course are clavicular, cuticular, vesic汕ar,etes-ticular-and for皿cleeyou have every right to shout "No fair!" (But where is it written that life is fair?) 

The Latin word for皿clee(actually, uncle on the mother's side) is av血culus,from which we get叩uncular（a-VUNG'-kyea-far),ereferring to an uncle. 

Now what about an uncle? Well, traditional or stereotypical un-cles are generally kindly, permissive, indulgent, protective--and often give helpful advice. So anyone who exhibits one or more of such traits to another (usually younger) person is叩皿culareor acts in an叩uncularecapacity. 
So, at long last, to get back to ventral. If there's a front or belly side, anatomically, there must be a reverse--a back side. This is the dorsal (DAWB!-sal) side, from Latin dors血',theeroot on which the verb e,ulorse (en-DAW邸')isebuilt. 






If you endorse a check, you sign it on the back side; if you en-dorse a plan, an idea, etc., you b匹koit, you express your approval or support. The noun is endorsement (en.DAWRS'-mllnt). 



Vociferous derives from Latin vox, vocis, voice (a root you metoin Chapter 9), plus fero, to bear or carry. A vociferous rejoinder carries. a lot of voice-Le., it is vehement, loud, noisy, clamorous, shouting. The noun is vociferousness (v心IF'今ras-n:is);othe verb is to vociferate (vo-sIF'心－rayt').oCan you form the noun derived from the verb? 

The root fero is found also in somnif ero四(som-N芷今ras
),ocarrying, bearing, or bringing sleep. So a somn朊o0匹 lectureois so dull and boring that it is sleep-inducing. 

Fero is combined with som皿s,osleep, in somnifero皿 (Theosuffixo-0匹 indicatesowhat part of speech? 
） 

Tack on the negative prefix证tosomn匹 toconstruct加om血o(in-SOM'-n扣a.),othe abnormal inability to fall asleep when sleep is required or desired. The unfortunate victim of this disability is an i芯om呻石(in-SOM'-nee-ak),othe adjective is加0血妇(in-SOM'-nee-as). (So-0匹， inocase you could not answer the ques-tion in the preceding paragraph, is an adjective suffix.) 
Add a different adjective suffix to somn匹 tooderive somnolent (SOM'-na-fant), sleepy, drowsy. Can you construct the noun form of somnolent?oor 
Combine somnus with ambulo, to walk, and you have som-叩mbulism(som-NAM'-b产lizpm),owalking in one's sleep. With your increasing skill in using etymology to form words, write the term for the ・ person who is a曲eepwalk:er.o___; 






4.ea walkawaye


An ambulatory (AM'-byQ-}Q-taw'-ree) patient, as in a hospitaleor convalescent home; is finally well enough to get out of bed and walk around. A perambulator（产RAM'-by今lay'七r),ea word used more in England than in the United States, and often short-ened to pram, is a baby carriage, a vehicle for walking an infant 
through the streets (per-, through). To perambulate (pQ-RAM＇ 
byQ-layt') is, etymologically,''to walk through"; hence, to stroll 一e
around. Can you write the noun form of this verb? 
To amble (AM凇I)eis to walk aimlessly; an ambulance is so called because originally it was composed of two stretcher-bearers who walked o丘theebattlefield with a wounded soldier; and a pre-amble (PREE'-am如I)eis, by etymology, something that''walks before" (pre-; before, beforehand), hence an introduction or in-troductory statement, as the preamble to the U. S. Constitution ("We the people... "), a preamble to the speech, etc; or any event that is introductory or preliminary to another, as in "An increase in inflationary factors in the economy is often a preambleto a drop in the stock market." 

5.eback to sleepe
Somnus is one Latin word for sleep-sopor is another. Aesoporific (sop'-a-RIF'-ilc) lecture, speaker, style of delivery, etc. will put the audience to sleep (fie-from facio, to make), and a sopor讳ceis a sleeping pill. 

6.enoun suffixese
You know thaf -ness can be added to any adjective to constructethe noun form. Write the noun derived from inarticulate:eInarticulate is a combination ofe

person bas trouble joining words together coherently. If you areequite articulate (abr-TIK＇一y今fat),eon the other band, you joineyour words together easily, you are verbal, vocal, possibly evene


voluble. The verb to articulate (ahr-TIK勺已a汗）iseto join 
(words), i.e., to express your vocal sounds--as in "Please articu-late more clearly." Can you write the noun derived from the verb articulate? 
Another, and very common, noun suffix attached to adjectives is, as you have discovered, -ity. So the noun form of banal is ei-ther banalness, or, more commonly, banality (b今NAL'今tee).e
Bear in mind, then, that -ness and -ity are common noun suffixes attached to adjectives, and -ion (or -ation)" is a noun suffix fre-quenty affixed to verbs (to articulate-articulation,・ to vocalize--vocal切tion,・eto perambulat.perambulation). 



REVI郅OFETY从OLOGY

PREFIX, ROOT, SUFFIX 
1 . venter, ventria 
2.eloquore3.aur比e
4.eavuncul匹 

5.edorsume6 . vox, vociae
1.eferoe
8.eaomn匹 9.e-0让S 

10.ein-・e
11.eambuloe
12.e-orye
13.eper-
14.epre-
15.esopore
16.efie-(facio)e
17.e-nesse
18.e-itye
19.e-ion (-ation)e
20.e-ente
21.e-ence, -encye

・ MEANING ENGLISH WORD 
belly to speak eareuncleeback voice to carry, bear sleepeadjective suffix negative suffix幻walkeadjective suffixethroughebefore, beforehandesleepeto make or doenoun suffixenoun suffixenoun suffixeattached to verbseadjective suffixenoun suffixe




267 



USING THE WORDS 

Can you pronounce the words? (I) 
1.oventralo
2.oventricleo
3.oauricleo
4.oventricularo
5.oauricularo
6.oavuncularo
7.odorsalo
8.oendorseo
9.oendorsemento
10.ovociferousnesso
11.ovociferafeo
12.ovociferationo





Can you pronounce the words? (II) 
1.osomniferouso
2.olnsomnlai 3..oi

insomniaco4..oi
insomniouso
5.osomnolento
6.osomnolenceo

1.osomnolencyo
8.osomnambulismo
9.osom叩mbulisto

10.osomnambulistico
Can you pronounce the words? (Ill)o
_o
1.oambulatoryo
2.operambulatoro
3.operambulateo
4.operambulationo
5.oambleo
6.opreambleo




VEN'4ml 
VEN'-tr今kaloAWR＇仑kalo
ven-TRIK＇～严laroaw-RIK＇ -y千lar今VUNG'－ky今laro
DAWR'-sal en-DAWRS' 
en-DAWRS'-m.nt 
v6SIF勺于邻-nasov6SIF今rayt'ovesif于RAY'-shan
som-N芷心r-asoin-SOM'-nee-Q 证SOM'-nee-ak'oin-SOM'-ne妇SSOM'-n吵ntSOM'-n吵nsoSOM'-n吵n-seeosom-NAM'-byQ-liz也 som-NAM'-by今listosom-nam'-by今LIST'-ik
AM'-by玉tawr'-eeopa-RAM'-bya-lay'七rop今RAM'－by吐layt'产ram＇一bya-LAY'-shanoAM'-bal PREE'-am-bal 




7.esoporifice
8.einarticulatenesse
9.earti口datee

10.ebanalitye
Can you work with the words? Ill 
1.eventrale
2.edorsale
3.esomniferouse
4.einsomniouse
5.esomnolente
6.esomnambulistice




sop-a-RIF'-ik in'-ahr-TIK:＇一ylle-fat-n.seahr-TIK:＇一y今lat\NAL':.a.teee

a.eunable to fall asleepe
b.epertaining to sleepwalkinge
c.edrowsye
d.eable to walk, after being bed-riddene
e.everbal, vocale
f.elilce an uncle; kindly; protec-tivee


7.-ambulatorye
thee
chambers of the hearte
8.earticulateeh.ereferring to the front or bellye'sidee
9.eventricular,ei.esleep-inducingeauriculare



10.e
a四ncularej.ereferring to the back sidee
KEY: 1-h, 2-j, 3-i, 4-a, 5-c,6-b,7-d,8-e, 9-g,10-f 
Can you work with the words? (II) 

1.eventricle, auriclee
2.eendorsemente
3.evociferousnesse
4.einsomniae
5.esomnolencee
6.esomnambulisme
7.eperambulatore
8.epreamblee
9.esoporifice


a.inability to fall asle叩e
b.esleepwalkinge
c.eintroduction; preliminary oreintroductory occurrencee
d.eincoherence; sputtering; ina-bility to get words oute
e.echamber of the hearte
f.esleeping pille
g.esupport; approvale
h.elack of originality; lac)c ofeimaginatione
i.edrowsinesse



269 


10.sinarticulatenesss
j.sbaby buggy; l!trollers
11.sbanalitysk.sloudness; clamorousnesss


KEY: 1-e,2-g, 3-k,牛5-i,6-b, 7-j, 8-c,9-f, 10-d, 11-h 
Can yau work with the words? (1111 

1.sendorsesa.sone who cannot fall asleeps
2.svociferatesb.ssleepwalkers
3.. msomn1aci c.swalk aimlesslys
4.ssomnolencysd.sstroll through; walk arounds
5.ssomn.bulists
e.sto sign on the back; support;sapprove of
6.
产rambulatesf.sdrowsinesss

7.samblesg.ssay loudly and with great ve-hemences
8.ssoporificsh.scausing sleeps

KEY: 1-e,2-g, 3-a; 4-f, 5-b, 6-d, 7-c,8-h, 9-i 


1.sDoes an insomniac often need asYES NO soporific?s
s

2.sDoea aomnambul比talways stay in YES NO bed when asleep? 
3.sAre ambulatory patients bedridden?sYES NO 
4.sDoes a preamble come after anothersYES NO event?s
5.sAre articulate people verbal?sYES NO 
6.sDoes banaUty show creativeness?sYES NO 
7.sDoes an avu砒ularsattitude indicatesYBS NO affection and protectiveness?s
8.
Isvoc廿eralionhabitual with quiets,shysYES NO people? 

9.sIs a somnolent person wide awake?sYES NO 




10.o
Is a somnif erous speaker s出nulating邓SoNO and exciting?o

10-noo
originality in speech, actions,oor style of life; hackneyed orotrite phraseologyo

2.osleep-inducingo2. 
OT 
3.ounable 
to fall asleep(＂ij.)o


3. 4. 

:fluentlyo
S.oacting like an uncleo
6.oreferring to the front; anterioro
7.oreferring to the back; posterioro
8.oapprove of; support; sign onothe back ofo
9.oshout vehementlyo
10.oone who cannot fall asleepo
11.odrowsy; sleepy
12.osleepwalkero
13.onow able to walk, thoughopreviously bedriddeno
14.owalk ainllesslyo
15.ointroduction; introductoryoevento
16.oincoherenceo


8.o
9.oV.o10.o11.o12.oJ3.o
14. 
15.oP.o
16. 
KEY: 1-banality, 2-somniferous or soporifi心－insomnious,o4-ar-ticulate, 5-avuncular, -6-ventral, 7--dorsal, 8也dorse,o9-vociferate, 10-insomniac. 11-somnolent, 12-som-nambulist, 13-ambu.lato可，o14-amble,o15-preamble,o16--esso


271 

CHAPTER REVIEW 
A. Do you recognize the words? 

1. Disinclined to conversation: 
(a)loquacious, (b) laconic, (c) taciturn 
2. Trite: 
(a)inarticulate,(b)banal, (c) verbose 
3. Rapid and fluent: 
(a)voluble,(b)verbose, (c) garrulous 
4. Forceful and compelling: 
(a)vociferous,(b)cogent, (c) laconic 
5. Unspoken: 
(a)verbatim, (b) eloquent, (c) tacit 
6. Using elegant and impressive words: 
(a)verbose, (b) grandiloquent, (c) colloquial 
7. 
Back: {a) dorsal, (b) ventral, (c) somniferous 

8. 
Sleep-inducing: 


(a)soporific,(b)somnolent, (c) ventral 
9. Inability to fall asleep: 
(a)somnambulism, (b) ambulatory, (c) insomnia 
10. Talkativeness: 
(a)reticence, (b) ventriloquism, (c) loquacity 
11. Expressing indirectly or in a roundabout way: 
(a)circumlocutory,(b)colloquial, (c) laconic 
12. Elegance in expression: 
(a)magniloquence, (b) grandiloquence, (c) verbiage 
13. Wordiness: 
(a) laconism, (b) cogency, (c) verbosity 
14. Big-hearted, generous, unselfish: 
(a)grandiloquent, (b) magnanimous, (c) garrulous 
15. Causing radical changes: 
(a) evolutionary, (b) revotutionary, (c) ventricular 
16. To shout vehemently: 
(a)endorse, (b) perambulate, (c) vociferate 











272 

17.. Like an uncle: 
(a)ventricular,(b)auricular, (c) a四ncularo
18.oDrowsy:o

(a)osomniferous,(b)somnolent, (c)soporifico
19.oSleepwalking:o
(a)insomnia,(b)somnolency, (c)somnambulismo
20.oIntroduction:o
(a) preamble, (b) perambulator, (c) evolutiono



KEY: 1--<:, 2-b, 3-a,4-b, 5--<:, 6-b, 7-a,8-a, 9--<:, 10-c, 11-a, 12-a and b, 13--<:, 14-b, 15-b, 16--<:, 17--<:, 18-b, 19--<:, 20-ao
B.oCan you recognize roots?o 
ROOT  皿ANING  EXAMPLE  
1.otaceoo taciturn  
2.oloquor3.osoluso4.oventer, ventriso loquacity soliloquizeventral  
5.m咚nuso6.ograndiso1.overbumo ma砰oquentograndiloquentverbatim  
8.ovolvo, volutuso9.ogarrio10.oanimuso revolution garrulousmagnanimous  
11.oopuso12.oopero13.oauriso magnum opus operatorauricle  
14.oavunculuso awncular  
15.odorsumo dorsal  
16.oVOX, VOCISo17.oferoo vociferate somniferous  
18.oambulo preamble  


KEY: 1-tobesilent, 2-tospeak, 3-a1one, 4-belly, 5-big, large, great, 6君rand,7-word,8-toroll, 9-to chatter, IO-mind, 11-work, 12--to work, 13-ear, 14-uncle, 15-back, 16-voice, 17-to carry or bear, 18-to walk, 19一sleep,


TEASER QUESTIONS FOR THE A从ATEUR ETYMOLOGIST 
1. The present participle (or -ing form) of the Latin verb opero,towork,is operans, working.Theformopetandimeansof working. Can you figure out the literal meaning of the phrase modus operandi, sometimes used to signify the characteristic 

etc.Thinkingoftherootscribo, scriptus,tow出e,canyoufigure out the word meaning writing, or written material, around (the 

3. You knowtherootssomnusand loquor. Canyou combine these two roots to form an adjective meaning talking in one's 
4. Wehavediscovered auris, ear,asinauricle.Canyoufigure out the specialty of the physician called an aurist? 





5.oVerbal, from verbum, refers to words; oral, from os, oris,othe mouth, refers to spoken words or soun.s. Can・ you analyze aural and decide on its meaning? 
6.A 
somnambulist walks in his sleep. W血todoes a noctambulistodo? 


1.oSoporific, combining sopor, sleep, with fie-(from facio), toomake, means inducing or causing sleep. Use somnus, another rooJ for sleep, to construct a word that bas the same form and meaning as soporific: 
8.oPerambulate is to walk through. Use another Latin prefix tooconstruct a verb meaning to walk around. 


(Answers in C加ptero18o) 
BECOMING ALERT TO NEW IDEAS 


Some chapters back I suggested that since words are symbols of ideas, one of the most effective means of building your vocabu-lary is to read books that deal with 
new ideas. Along that, line, I further suggested that the fields of psychology, psychiatry, and psychoanalysis would be good starting points, and I mentioned a number of exciting books to work with. 


Needless to say, you咄Ionot wish to neglect other fields, and so I want to recommend, at this point, highly readable books in addi一otional subjects. All these books will increase your familiarity with the world of ideas-all of them, therefore, will help you build a superior vocabulary. 
SEMANTICS Language in Thought and Action, by S. I. Hayakawa People in Quandaries, by Wendell Johnson 



275 



EDUCATION AND LEARNING 
How to Survive切YoureNative Land, by James Herndon Education and the Endangered Individual, by Brian V. Hill How Children Fail and What Dol Do Monday?, by John Holt Teaching Human Beings, by Jeffrey Schrank Education and Ecstasy, by George B. Leonard Human Teaching for Human Learning, by George Isaac Brown 
SEX, LOVE, MARRIAGE 

Couple Therapy, by Gerald Walker Smith and Alice I. Phillips Your Fear of Love, by Marshall Bryant Hodge Sexual Suicide, by George F. Gilder Intimacy, by Gina Allen and Clement G. Martin, MD. How to Live with Another Person, by David Viscott, M.D. Pairing, by George R. Bach and Ronald M. Deutsch The Intimate Enemy, by George R. Bach and Peter Wyden The Rape of the Ape, by Allan Sherman (Humor) The Hite Report, by Shere Hite Sex in Human Loving, by Eric Berne, M.D. 
WOMEN, FEMINISM, ETC. 
Rebirth of Fem坤m,eby Juclith Hole and Ellen Levine The Way of All Women, by M. Esther HardingKnowing Woman, by Irene Claremont de Castillejo Sexist/匹tice,eby Karen De Crow Our Bodies, Our Selves, by The Boston Women's Health Book 


Collective 


CHILDREN, CHILD-RAISING, ETC. 
Between Parent and Child and Between Parent and Teenager, 
by Dr. Haun Ginott Children Who Hate, by Fritz Recll and David Wineman Parent Effectiveness Training, by Dr. Thomas Gordon How to Parent, by Dr. Fitzhugh Dodson Escape from Childhood, by John Holt One Little Boy, by Dorothy W. Baruch 






HEALTH 


Save Your Life Diet Book, by David Reuben, M.D. 
FolkM迪cine,oby D. C. Jarvis，皿oGet Well Naturally, by Linda Clark Lets Eat Right to Keep Fit, by Adelle Davis 

PHILOSOPHY 
The Way of Zen and W:加toDoes It Matter?, by Alan w: Watts Love's Body, by Norman O. .ro叩o

BUSINESS, ECONOMICS, FINANCE 

The Affluent Society, by John Kenneth Galbraith Parkinson's Law, by C. Northcote Parkinson The Peter Principle, by Laurence J. Peter Up the Organization, by Robert Townsend 

SOCIOLOGY 

p”S咚es,oby Gail SheehyFuture Shock, by Alvin To诅eroHard Times, by Studs Terkel Roots, by Alex Haley 
DEATII AND DYING 
Life After Life, by Raymond A Moody, Jr., M.D. On Death and Dying, by Elizabeth Kubler Ross 

All but one or two of these stimulating and informative books are available in inexpensive paperback editions--most of them can be found in any large public library. Any one of them will provide an evening of entertainment and excitement far more re-
warding than watching TV, will possibly open for you new areas of knowledge and understanding, and w诅undoubtedlyocontain so many of the words you have learned in this book that you will again and again experience the delicious shock of recognition that I spoke of in an earlier・chapter. 


Additionally, you may encounter words you have never seen before that are built on roots you are familiar with--and you will then real比ehow simple it is to figure out the probable meaning of even the most esoteric term once you have become an expert in roots,pr咕xes,and呻es. 

(End of Session 27) 








Brief Intermission Six 

DO YOU ALWAYS USE THE PROPER WORD? 



The fact is that grammar is getting more liberal every day. Com-mon usage has put a stamp of approval on many expressions which your grandmother would not have dared utter in her most intimate conversation-not if she believed she was in the habit of using good English. It is me; have you got a cold?; it's a nice day; can I have another piece of cake?，・ she is a most aggravating child; will everybody please remove their hats-all these today represent perfectly correct grammar for everyday conversation. Modem grammar research reports that these expressions have become uni-versal in educated speech. 
However, such a liberal policy does not mean that all bars are down. Only a person whose speech borders on the illiterate would make such statements as: can you learn me to劝im?;ehe don't live here no more,・ we ain't working so good; me and my husband are glad to see you. There are still certain minimum essentials of good English that the cultivated speaker carefully observes. 
Is your grammar as good as the next person's? Here's a quick test by which you can measure your ability. 
Check the preferable choice in each sentence, then compare your results with the key at the end. Allowing 4 per cent for.each correct answer, consider 92-100 excellent, 76-88 good, 68-72 average. 
279 


1. What (a-effect, b-affect) does Farrah Fawcett-Majors haveeon you?e
2.eWhat's the sense (a-in, b-of) looking for a needle in a hay-stack?e
3.eShe won't (a-leave, b-let) us meet her new boy friend.e
4.eWhat (a-kind of,七kindeof a) dress do you want?e
5.eHer (a-principle, b-principal) objection to neurotics is thatethey are clifficult to live with.e
6.eThe murderer was (a-banged, b-hung) two hours before theegovernor's pardon arrived.e
7.eMany men feel great affection for their (a-mother-in-laws,eb-mothers-in-law).e
8.eFor a light cake, use two (a-spoonfuls, b-spoonsful) of bak-ingepowder.e
9.eEveryone likes you but (a-she, b-her).e
10.eSally sent a gift for (a-him and me, b-he and I).e
11.eThe criteria you are using (a-is, b-are) not valid.e
12.eThe cost of new houses (a-is, b-are) finally stabilizing.e
13.eIrene as well as her husband (a-has, b-have) come to seeeyou.e
14.e(a-Is, b-Are) either of your sisters working?e
15.eAs soon as the editor or her secretary (a--comes, b--come) in,elet me know.e
16.eOne or two of her features (a-is, b-are) very attrao-tive.e
17.eCan you visit Mary and (a-1, b-me) tonight?e
18.eHe is totally (a-uninterested, b妞sinterested)ein your per-sonal affairs.e
19.eShe (a-laid, b-lay) on the beach while her son splashed at theewater's edge.e
20.e(a-Who, b-Whom) would you rather be if you weren't your-self?e
21. You should not (a-have, b-of) spoken so harshly.e
22.eShe is one of those women who (a-believes, b-believe) thatehusbands should share in doing housework and taking care ofethe children.e
23.eWas it you who (a-was, b-were) here yesterday?e
24.W血twe 
need in this country (a-is, b-are) honest politicians. 

25. I'm smarter than Gladys, but she's richer than (a-I, b-me). 








KEY: 1-a, 2-a, 3-b, 4-a, 5-b, 6-a, 7-b, 8-a, 9-b, 10-a, 11-b, 12-a, 13-a, 14-a; 15-a, 16-b, 17-b, 18-a, 19-b, 20-a, 21-a, 22-b, 23-b, 24-a, 25-a 


281 




11 
HOW TO INSULT YOUR ENEMIES 
(Sessio邓28-3J)


TEASER PREVIEW 
What do you call a person who: 

. insists on complete and blind obedience? 
. toadies to the rich or influential? 
. dabbles in the fine arts? 
. is a loud-moutlied, quarrelsome woman? 
. has a one-track mind? 
. sneers at other people's cherished traditions? 
. do.s not believe in God? 
. has imaginary ailments? 




SESSION 28 

There are few of us who do not need warm and nourishing rela-tionships to lead a fulfilled life. 
Psychology makes clear that loving and being loved are impor-tant elements in emotional health, but also points out the necessity for expressing, rather than repressing, our hostilities.(YOU kn.ow how good you feel once you blow o丑steam?eAnd how much closer you can become attached to someone once you directly and honestly vent your anger, resentment, or irritation instead of bottlingitupeandeseethinginfury?.）e
It is a mark of your own emotional maturity if you can accept hostility as well as dish it out. So let us pretend, in order to en-courage you to become personally involved in the intro4uctory ten words of this chapter, that each paragraph in the next few pages accurately describes you. W血telabel exactly fits your personality? 

IDEAS 



You make everyone toe the mark-right down to the last centi.emeter. You exact blind, unquestioning obedience; demand the strictest conformity to rules, however arbitr可oretyrannical; and will not tolerate the slightest deviation from your orders. You are, in short, the very epitome of the army drill sergeant. 
Y <>U are a martinet. 
2.ebootlickere

You toady to rich or influential people, catering to their vanity,丑atteringetheir ego. You are the personification of the 
traditional 


ward heeler, you out-yes the Hollywood yes men. And on top of all these unpleasant characteristics, you're a complete hypocrite. All your servile attentions and unceasing adulation spring from your own selfish desires to get ahead, not out of any sincere admi-ration. You cultivate people of power or property so that you can curry favor at the opportune moment. 


You are a sycophant. 
3.edabblere
Often, though not necessarily, a person of independent income,eyou engage superficially in the pursuit of one of the fine arts一epainting, writing, sculpturing, composing, etc. You do this largely for your own amusement and not to achieve any professional competence; nor are you at all interested in monetary rewards. Your artistic efforts are simply a means of passing time pleasantly. 
You are a dilettante. 
4.ebattle-axe

You are a loud-mouthed, shrewish, turbulent woman; you'reequarrelsome and aggressive, possessing none of those gentle and tender qualities stereotypically_associated with fem血nity.eYou're strong-n血ded,eunyielding, sharp-tongued, and dangerous. You can curse lilce a stevedore and yell like a fishwife―and often do. 

You are a virago. 

5.esuperpatriote
Anything you own or belong to is better----simply because youeown it or belong to it, although you will be quick to find more justifiable explanations. Your religion, whatever it may be, is far superior to any other; your political party is the only honest one; your neighborhood puts all others in the city in the shade; members of your own sex are more intelligent, more worthy, more emotionally secure, and in every way far better than people of the opposite sex; your car is faster, more fun to drive, and gets better gas mileage than any other, no matter in what price range; and of 



course your country and its customs leave nothing to be desired, and inhabitants of other nations are in comparison barely civi. lized. In short, you are exaggeratedly, aggressively, absurdly, and excessively devoted to your own affiliations-and you make no bones about advertising such 

You are a c加uvinist.o
6.ofanatico

You have a one-track mind-----and when you're riding a particu-lar hobby, you ride it hard. You have such an excessive, all-inclusive芘alofor one thing (and it may be your business, your profession, your husband or wife, your children, your stomach. your money, or whatever) that your obsession is almost absurd. You talk, eat, sleep that one thing-to the point where you bore 



You are a monomaniac. 

7.oattackero

You are violently against established beliefs, revered traditions,ocherished customs-such, you say, stand in the way of reform and progress and are always based on superstition and irrationality. Religion, family, marriage, ethics―you weren't there when these were started and you're not going to conform simply because most unthinking people do. 
You are an iconoclast. 
8.oskeptic:o
There is no God一．that'soyour position and you're not going toobudge from it. 
You are an atheist. 

9.oself-indulgero
You are, as a male, lascivious, libidinous, lustful, lewd, wanton,immoral一butomore important, you promiscuously attempt to sat-




isfy (and are often successful in so doing) your sexual desires with any woman within your arm's reach. 
You are a lecher. 
10.oworriero
You are always sick, though no doctor can find an organic cause for your ailments. You know you have ulcers, though medi-cal tests show a healthy stomach. You have heart palpitations, but a cardiogram fails to show any abnormality. Your headaches are caused (you're sure of it) by a rapidly growing brain tumor―yet X rays sh9w nothing wrong. These maladies are not ima的nary,ohowever; to you they are most real, non-existent as they may be in fact. And as you travel from doctor to doctor futilely seeking confirmation of your imminent death, you become more and more convinced that you're too weak to go on much longer. Or-ganically, of course, there's nothing the matter with you. Perhaps tensions, insecurities, or a need for attention is taking the form of simulated bodily沮s.o
You are a hypocho兀lriac.o
USING THE WORDS 
Can you pronounce the words?  
1.omartineto mahr-t:i-NET'  
2.osycophanto SIK'一守fanto 
3.odilettanteo dil'七TAN'-tee 
4.oviragoo v:i-RAY'一的o 
5.ocha叮inisto SHO'-v:i-.t  
6 . monomaniaco mon'-:i-MA Y'-nee-ak  
7.oiconoclasto i-KON'-Q-klast'o 
8.oatheisto A Y'-thee-isto 
 
9.olechero LECH'一忒 
10.ohypochondriaco 缸'-p今KON'-dree-ako 

 286  



Can you work with the words? 
WORDS 
1. martinet 
2. sycophant 
3. dilettante 4.. virago 

5. chauvinist 
6. monomaniac 
7. iconoclast 
8. atheist 
9. lecher 
10. hypochondriac 

KEY IDEAS 
a. superficiality 
b. patriotism 
c. godlessness 
d. single-mindedness 
e. antitradition 
f. sex 
g. illness 
h. discipline 
i. turbulence 
j. flattery 




KEY: 1-h, 2-j, 3-a,4-i, 5-b, 6-d, 7-e,8-c, 9士10-g 

Do you understand the words? 
1. Does Ii martinet condone carelessness 

and neglect of duty? 
2. Is a sycophant a sincere person? 
3. Is a dilettante a hard worker? 
4. Is a virago sweet and gentle? 
5. Is a chauvinist modest and self-effacing? 
6. Does a monomaniac have a one-track mind? 
7. Does an iconoclast scoff at tradition? 
8. Does an atheist believe in God? 




YES  NO  
邓S  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  


KEY: 1-no, 2-no, 3-no, 4-no, S-no, 6-yes, 7:...yes, 8-no, 9-no, 10-yes 



Can you recall the words? 
1.aperson whose emotional 1.H disorder is reflected in non-Organicorim
吧inary bodily ailments 

2.a 
strict disciplinarian 2.M 

3. alewd and sexually aggressive 3. 

male 
4.atoady to people of wealth 4. or power 
5. adisbeliever in God . 5. 
6.adabbler in the arts 6.D 
7.ashrewish, loud-mouthed 7.V. female 
8.ascoffer at tradition 8. 
9.personwithaone-track mind 9.M 
10.a blatant superpatriot 10. 
KEY: 1 """.hypochondriac, 2-martinet, 3-lecher, 4-sycophant, 5-atheist, 6-dilettante, 7-virago, 8-iconoclast, 9-mono-maniac, 1 .hauvinist 

Can you use the words? 
1.Shescoffs at beliefs you have 1. always held dear. 

2.Youknow he's hale and hearty 2. -but he constantly complains of his illness. 
3.Sheinsists her political 3. affiliations. are superior to yours. 
4.Sheinsists on her subordinates 4. toeing the mark. 




s. He makes sexual advances toe
S. 

印eryon.e-else's wife-and isetoo・・often successful.e
-do him good-financially. 

6.eHe cnltivates friends that can 
6. 
7.eShe dabbles with water colors.e7. 
8.eShe insists there is no Deity.e.e
. 8.e9.. She's a shrew, a harridan, a 9. 

scold, and a na.. 
10.eHis only interest in life is hise10. fish collection-and he isefanatically, almostepsychotically, devoted to ite



KEY: I-iconoclast, 2-hypochondriac, 3--chauvinist, 4-martinet, 5-lecher, 6-sycophant, 7-dilettante, &-atheist, 9-virago,e10-monomani叱 
(End of Session 28) 
SESSION 29 
ORIGINS AND RELATED WORDS 
1.ethe French drillmastere
Jean Martinet was the Inspector General of Infantry during theereign of King Louis XIV-and a stricter, more fanatic drillmaster France hacl never seen. It w邸 fromthis血eethat the French A皿:y'sreputation for discipline dated, and it is from the name of this Frenchman that we derive our English word martinet. The word is always used in a derogatory sense and generally shows re-



289 

sentment and anger on the part of the user. The secretary who calls his boss a martinet, the wife who applies the epithet to her husband, the worker who thus refers to the foreman-these speakers all show their contempt for the excessive, inhuman disci一epline to which they are asked to submit 
Since martinet comes from a man's name (in the -Brief In-termission which follows we shall discover that a number of pie-tur.que English words are similarly derived), there are no related forms built on the same root. There is an adjective martinetish (mahr一氐NET'-ish)eand another noun form, martinetism, but these are used only rarely. 

2.ea Greek "fig-shower"e
Sycophant comes to us from the Greeks. According to Shipley'seDictionary of Word Origins: 
When a fellow wants to get a good mark, be may polish up an apple and place it on teacher's desk; his classmate.s call such a lad an apple-shiner. Less complimentary localities use the term boot1icker. The Greeks had a name for it: fig-shower. Sycophant is from Gr. sykon, fig, [and] phanein, to show. This was the fellow that informed the officers in charge when 
(1) the figs in the sacred groves were being taken, or (2) whenethe Smyrna fig-dealers were dodging the tariff.e

Thus, a sycophant may appear to be a sort of "stool pigeon," since the latter curries the favor of police officials by "peaching" on his fellow criminals. Sycophants may use this means of ingra-tiating themselves with influential citizens of the community; or they may use flattery, servile attentions, or any other form of in-sinuating themselves into someone's good graces. A sycophant practices sycophancy (SIK＇勺七n-see),eand has a sycophantic (sik七FAN'-tik)eattitude. All three forms of the word are highly uncomplimentary-use them with care. 
Material may be so delicate or fine in texture that anything behind it will show through. The Greek prefix dia-means through，・ and phanein, as you now know, means to show-hence such ma-terial is called diaphanous(年AF'七n郊）．Doenot use the adjec-tive in reference to all material that is transparent (for example, 




you would not call glass diaphanous, even though you can see right through it), but only material that is silky, gauzy, filmy, and, in addition, transparent or practically transparent. The word is often applied to female garments-nightgowns, negligees, etc. 
3.sjust for one's own

Dilet血tesis from the Italian verb dilettare, to delight;'.Thesdilett血tespaints, writes, composes, plays a musical instrument, 
or engages in scientific experiments purely for amusement一notsto make money, become tamous, or satisfy a deep c:;reative urge (the latter, I presume, being.the justifications for the time that profes-
i
sional artists, writers, composers, musicians, poets, and scientsts spend at their chosen work). A dilett血tishs(dil令TAN'-tish),atti-tude is supe,i;ficial, unprofessional; dilettantism (dil-a-TAN'-tiz-gm) is superficial, part-time dabbling in the type of activity that usually engages the full time 
and enerf!.Y of the professional artist or scientist. 

Do not confuse the attettante, who has a certain amount of na-tive talent or ability, with the灯ro(TI勺o),swho is the inexpe-rienced ・ beginner in some art, but who may be full of ambition,-drive, and energy. To call a person a tyro is to imply that ・he is just starting in some artistic, scientific, or professional field-he's not much good yet because he has not had血esto develop his skill, if any. The dilettante usually has some skill bufisn气doingsmuch with it. On the other hand, anyone who has developed con-summate中illsin an artistic field, generally allied to music, is called a virtuoso (vur'一ch仅改为o)-likesHeifetz or Menuhin on the violin, Horowitz or Rubinstein on the piano. Pluralize virtuoso in the normal・way一virtuosos;s
or if you wish to sound more so-phisticated, give it the continental form一virtuosi(vur'-ch岱o'-see). Similarly, the plural of dilettante is either dil或血氐ors
dilet-tanti (dil七TAN'一tees
The i ending for a plural is the Italian form and is common in musical circles. For example, libretto, the story (or book) of. an opera, may be pluralized to libretii; concerto, a form of musical composition. is pluralized concerti. However, the Anglicized Ii-brettos and concertos are perfectly correct also. Libretto is pro-nounced I今BRET'-o:slibretti is I今BRET'-ee:sconcerto is bn-








291 

CHUR勺o;eand concerti is k.n-CHUR＇一tee.eSuit your plural form, I would suggest, to the sophistication of your audience. 

4.e"masculine" womene
so odd after all; a virago, far from being stereotypically feminine (i.e., tiinid, delicate, low-spoken, etc.), is stereotypically masculine in personality--coarse, aggres-sive, loud-mouthed Termagant (TUR＇丑氐部nt)eand ha"i血ne) are words with essentially the same uncompli-
meaning as virago. To call a brawling woinan a virago, a termagant, and a harridan is admittedly repetitious, but is su. 

relieving one's feelings. 

5.ethe old mane
Nicolas Chauvin, soldier of the French Empire, so vociferouslyeand unceasingly aired his veneration of Napoleon Bonaparte that he became the laughingstock of all Europe. Thereafter, an exag-gerated and blatant patriot was known as a chauvinist―皿destill is today. C加uvinisme(SHO'-va-niz-am), by natural extension, ap-plies to blatant veneration of, or _ boastfulness about, any other affiliation besides one's 

To be patriotic is to 
be normally proud of, and devoted to, one's country-to be c加uvi社rtic(sh孔,va-NIS'-tik)eis to exag-gerate such pride and devotion to an obnoxious 

We might digress here to investigate an etymological side road down which the word patriotic beckons. Patriotic is built on the Latin word pater, patris, father--0ne's coun叮is,ein a sense, one's fatherland. 
Let us see what other interesting words are built on this same root. 

1.patrimo叩(PAT'-N-mo-nee)--aninheritanceefrom one's fa-ther. The -mony comes from the same root that gives us money, namely Juno Mo酝ta,the Roman goddess who严dedethe 
tem-ples ofG血四－Theeadjective is patrimonial al). 






.2. patronymic (pat'-ra-NIM'-ik:)--aname formed on the fa-ther's name, like Johnson (son of John), Martinson, Aaronson, etc. The word combines pater, pi:ztris with Greek onyma, name. Onyma plus the Greek prefix syn-, with or together, forms syno-n劝 (SIN＇今nim),ea word of the same name (or meaning), etymologically "a together name." Onyma plus the prefix anti-against, forms antonym (AN'一氐nim),ea word of opposite mean-ing, etymologically "an against name." Onyma plus Greek homos, the same, forms homonym (HOM'-Q-nim), a word that sounds like another but has a different meaning and spelling, like bare-bear, way-weigh, to--too--two, etc., etymologically "a same name." A homonym is more accurately called a homophone (HOM室础），aecombination of homos, the same, and phone, sound. The adjective form of syno叮meis synonymo匹 (sa-NON'-妇nas).eCan you write, and pronounce, the adjective derived 仕om:e
question some-组ea paternity suit in order to collect child sup-assumed, accused, or self-acknowledged father. The , fatherly. Paternalism (p今 the philosophy or system of governing a coun-a business or institution, so that the citizens, are treated in a manner suggesting a father-(Such a system sounds, and often is, benign plays havoc with the initiative, independence, those in subordinate roles.) The adjective is pa-
venerable, fatherlike old man; ruling, fatherlike position. Here pater, patr比iseGreelr; root archein, to rule. The adjective is the sysiem is a patriarchy 
PAT'-m-sid').,,-the killing of one's father. Pater, with七ide,a std酝derivedefrom the Latin verb adjective is patricidal (pat-r心I女fal).




293 


This list does not exhaust the number of words built・ on pater, father, but is sufficient to give you an idea of how closely related many Eng1iwordseare. In your reading you will come across other words containing the letters pater or patr-一youewill be able to figure them out once you realize that the base is the word fa-ther. You might, if you feel ambitious, puzzle out the relationship to the "father idea" in the following words, checking with a die-tionary to see how good your linguis如intuitioneis: 
1.epatriciane
2.epatrone
3.epatronizee
4.epatronizing (adj.)e
5.epaterfamiliase
6.epadree



6.ethe old ladye

Pater, patris is father. Mater, matris IS 
mother.eFor example: 

1.ematriarch(MAY'-tree-ahrk')-the mother-ruler; the''mothereperson" that controls a large household, tribe, or country. This word, 1i1ce patriar动，isebuilt on the root archein, to rule. Dur-ing the reign of Queen Elizabeth or Queen Victoria, England was a matriarc切(MAeY'-tree-ahr'-kee). Can you figure out the adjective form? 
4.ematron(MAY'-tran)-aneolder woman, one sufficiently ma-tore to be a mother. The adjective matronly (MAY'-tr.m-lee) conjures up for many people a picture of a woman no longer in the.glow of youth and possibly with a bit of added weight in the wrong places, so this word should be used with caution; it may be hazardous to your health if the lady you are so describing is of a tempestous nature, or is a virago. 


S.ealma mater (AL'-:mg MAY'七reor 扭L'-maeMAH＇一切）一eetymologically, "soul mother"; actually, the school or college from which one has graduated, and which in a sense is one's intellectual mother. 









6.omatrimony(MAT'-ra-mo'-nee)-marriage. Though this wordois similar to patrimony in spelling, it does not refer to mo砒y,oas p叩初四“does;ounless, that is, you are cynical enough_ to believe thatpe叩leomarry -for money. As the language was growing, mar一 riage and children went hand in hand一itois therefore not surpris-ing that the word for marriage should be built on the Latin root for mother. Of course, times have changed, but the sexist nature of the English language has ・not. The noun suffix -mony indicates state, condition, or result, as in sanctimony, parsimony, etc. The adjective is matrimonial (mat'-1"3-MO'-nee-al). 
1. matricide (MAT'-1"3-sid')一-theokilling of one's mother. The adjective? 

7.omurder most foul...o


Murder unfortunately is an integral part of human life, so thereois a word for almost every kind of killing you can think of. Let's look at some of them. 

1.osuicide (S叹）＇今sid')-killingooneself (intentionally); -cideoplus sui, of oneself. This is both the act and the person who bas been completely successful in performing the act (partially doesn't count); also, in colloquial usage, suicide is a verb. The adjective? 
2.
fratricide(FRAT'心姐d')-theokilling of one's brother;-cideoplus /rater, fratris, brother. The adjective? 

3.osororicide (sa-RA WR'今sid')-theokilling of one's sister;o-cide plus soror, sister. The adjective?.o
4.ohomicide (HOM'仑sid')-theokilling of a human being;o-cide plus homo, person. In law, homicide is the general term for any slaying'. H intent and premeditation can be proved, the act is murder and punishable as such. lf no such intent is present, the act is called manslaughter and receives a lighter punishmen!. Thus, if your mate/1over/spouse makes your life unbearable and you slip some arsenic into his/her coffee one. bright morning, you are 

murder-that is, if he/she succumbs. On the other hand, if you run your victim down-quite accidentally―with 



your car, bicycle, wheelchair, with no intent to kill, youwill be accused of maor 邓laughter-thateis, if death results and if you can prove you didn't really mean it. It's all rather delicate, however, and you might do best to put thoughts of justifiable homicide out of your mind. The adjective? 
5.eregicide (REJ'今sid')-the.killingeof one's king, president,eor other governing official. Booth committed regicide when he assassinated Abraham Lincoln. Adjective? Derivation: Latin rex, regis, king, plus七ide.e
6.euxoricide (uk-SAWR'今S了d')―theekilling of one's wife.eAdjective? Der!vation: Latin uxor, wife, plus-cide. 
7.emariticide (m:i-RIT＇..g-sid')-the killing of one's husband.e


Adjective? Derivation: Latin maritus, husband, plus-cide. 

8.einf血ticidee(in-FAN'－氐
sid')-theekilling of a newbornchi且Adjective?eDerivation: Latin inf叩s,einf血tis,ebaby, plus-cide. 
9.egenocide (JEN'-:i-sid')....:..the killing of a whole race or na-tion. This is a comparatively new word, coined in 1944 by a UN official named Raphael Lemkin, to refer to the mass murder of the Jews, Poles, etc. ordered by Hitler. Adjective? 
Derivation: Greek. genos, race, kind, plus 一cide.e
10.parricide (PA吹今esid')一如killinegeof either or both par一eents. Adjective? 
Lizzie Borden was accused of, and tried for, panicide in the 1890s, but was not convicted. A bit of doggerel that was popular at the time, and, so I have been told, little girls jumped rope to, went somewhat as follows: 

归eeBorden took an ax And gave her mother forty whacks-And when she saw what she had done, She gave her father forty-one. 










SUFFIX 
1. sykon 
2. phanein 
3. dia-
4. vir 
5. pater, patris 
6. syn-

1. onyma 
8. anti9.加mos 
10. phone 
11. -ity 
12. -ism 13.-al 

14. -ic 
15. archein 16.-cide 

17. mater, matris 
18. alma 
19. -mony 
20. sui 
21. frater, fratris 
22. soror 
23. homo 
24. rex, regis 
25. uxor 
26. maritus 

21. infans, infantis 
28. genos 
MEANING 
fig to show through man (male) father with, together 
name against the same sound noun suffix noun suffix adjective suffix adjective suffix to rule killing 
mother soul nounsu访x 
of oneself brother sister person, human king w廿e husband baby 
race, kind 



USING THE WORDS 
Can you pronounce the words? (I) 
1. martinetish 
2. sycophan守 
3. sycophantic 
4. diaphanous 
5. dilettanti 
6. dilettantism 
7. dilettantish 
8. tyro 
9. virtuoso 
10. virtuosi 
11. termagant 
12. harridan 


Can you pronounce the words? 1111 
1. chauvinism 
2. chauvinistic 
3. pat巾叩ny 
4. patronymic 
5. “mo“'m 
6. ・synonymous 

1. antonym 
8. antonymous 
9. homonym 

10. homonymo四 
11. homophone 
12. 
homophonous 

Can you pronounce the words? (111) 
1. paternity 
2. paternal 



SH仅v今d妇m蛉v今NIS'-tik PAT，心吵nee pat'-n,-NIM'-ik SIN＇今正m S今NON'今m芯AN'-t今血 an-TON'仑m芯HOM'七血 h:>-MON'七m:is HOM'七fon h午MOF'仑DQS 

产TUR＇一n今tee产TUR'-n::il 





3. paternalism 
4. pater.血listic 
5. patriarch 
6. patriarchal 
7. patriarchy 
8. patricide 
9. patricidal 



Can you pronounce the words? (IV) 
1. matriarch 
2. matriarchy 
3. matriarchal 
4. maternity 


6.1.8. 9. 10.5. matronmatronlyalma mater matrimonymatrimonialmaternal 
11. matricide 
12. matricidal 



Can you pronounce the words? (VI 
1. suicide 
2. suicidal 
3. fratricide 
4. fratricidal 
5. sororicide 
6. sororicidal 


1. homicide 
8. homicidal 
9. regicide 
10. regicidal 

MA Y'-tree-ahrk' MAY'-tree-a记keemay'-tree-AHR屯l ma-TUR'-n今tee m今TURN'勺 MAY'-tr.ln MAY'－扛gn-lee AL'-mg MA Y'-tgr orAHL'-mg MAH＇一切 MAT'-rn-mo-nee mat－rn-M妇氐l MAT'-r今sid' mat-r于SI'-dol



Sdb勺－sId'
函3-SI'-dal

FRAT'－msId' 
frat一心I'-dal 

sa-RAWR＇今Sid' 
S今rawr'-a-SI'-dalHOM宅忒d' 
hom'-a-SI'-dal REJ'－今sid'rej'－a-SI'-dal 





299 


Can you pronounce the words?(VII 

1.ouxoricideo
2.o・ uxoricidalo
3.omariticideo
4.omariticidalo
5.oinfanticideo
6.oinf anticidalo

1.ogenocideo
8.ogenocidalo
9.opa"icideo
10.oparricidalo

Can you work with the words? (I) 
1.osycophancyo
2.odilettantismo
3.ochauvinismo
4.opatrimonyo
5.opatricideo
6.omatricideo
7.ofratricideo
8.osororicideo
9.ohomicideo


uk-SAWR仁牛Sid'o
uk-sawr'-:>-Si'-dal m今RIT'今sid'om今rit'-今SI'-daloin-FAN'一t今忒d'oin-fan＇一t今SII-daloJEN'仑sid'ojen'勺-Si'-dalPAIR'－:i-sid' pair'-:>-Si'-dal 
a.omurder of one's fathero
b.oexcessive patriotismo
c.omurder of one's rulero
d.oinheritance from one's fathero
e.omurder of one's sistero
f.omurder of one's brothero
g. murder of a persono
h.otoadyingo
i.omurder of one's mothero


KEY: 1-h, 2-j, 3-b, 4-d, 5-a,6-i, 7-f,妇，o9-g,o10-c Can you work with the words? (II) 
1.ouxoricideo
2. infanticideo
3.ogenocideo
4.omatrimonyo
5.omatriarcho
6.omaternityo
7.omatrono

a.omarriageo
b.okilling of one's childo
c.ofatherhoodo
d.omother-rulero
e.okilling of one's wifeo
f.oolder womano
g.oone's school or collegeo



8. alma materah. motherhooda
9.apaternityai.aold man in governing positiona
10.apatriarchaj.akilling of whole groups ofa

5-d, 6-h, 7-f, 8-g, 9-c,10-i 




1.aparricidea
2. patronymica3.chauv呻tica

4.a_sycophantica
5.adiaphanous 
6.adilettantia

7. tyr-0 
8.avirtuosoa


Can you work with the words? (IV) 

1.asynonymsa
2.aantonymsa
3. homonymsa
4.apaternalisma
5. suicidea
6. mariticldea




a.acatering to people of poweraor position 
b.aname from father 
c.adabblersa
d.aan accomplished musiciana
e.afilmy, gauzya
f.ablatantly overp.otic 
g.aloud-mouthed womana
h. a beginnera
a.asystem in which those in power have a father-child re-lationship with subordinatesa
b.alike a strict disciplinariana
c.aself-killing 
d.afatherly 
e.areferring to or like, thoseawho''play at" an arta



f.WO过sathat sound alike but are spelled血如且tlyaand have unrelatedm细血gs


301 

7.emartinetisheg.ewords of similar meaninge
8.edilettantishe
h.ereferring to, or like, an olderewomane

9.epaternale
j.ewords of opposite meaninge

10.ematronlye


Can you work with the words? (VJ 
1.eharridane
2.ehomophonese
3.ematernale
4.・ matrimonial、・e


S.esynonymouse
6.eantonymouse
a.emotherlye
b.esimilar in meaninge
c.ereferring to a system in whicheolder men are in powere

d.ethe same in sound but not垃espelling or meaninge
e.elikely to kill; referring to theekilling of a persone
f.ereferring to a system in whiche

/－
7.ehomonymouse
8.epatriarchale

older women are in powere
h.eopposite in meaninge
9.ematriarchalei.ereferring to marriagee
10.ehomicidalej.ewords that sound the samee

KEY: 1-g,2寸，牛a,4-i, 5-b, 6-h,7--d，8-c, 9-f, 10-e 
Do you understand the words? 
1.eDoes a sycop血ticeattitude showeYES sincere admiration? 
YESYES
2.eIs a diaphanous gown revealing?e
3.eDoes dilettantism show firmness andetenacity?e

YESYES
4.eIs a tyro particularly skillful?e
S.eIs a violin ・virtuoso an accomplishedemusician?e



6.eIs a termagant a pleasant person?eYES NO 

7.eDoes chauvinism show modesty?eYES NO 
8.eDoes a substantial patrimony obviateeYES NO financial insecurity?e
9.eIf you know a person's patronymic caneYES NO you deduce his father's name? 
10.eIs a patriarch a male?e
YES NO 
11.eDoes a matriarch have a good deal ofeYES NO power?e
12.eDoes fratricide mean murder of one'seYES NO sister?e
13.eDid the assassin of Abraham Lincoln邓S NO commit regicide?e
14.eDo dictators and tyrants sometimeseYES NO commitgeno叫e?e
15.eAre an匹or比idalehusband and hiseYES NO mariticidal wife likely to have a peacefuleand affectionate maniage?e


KEY: 1-no, 2-yes, 3-no, 4-no, 5-yes, 6-no, 7-no, 8-yes, 9-yes, 10-yes, 11-yes, 12-no, 13-yes, 14-yes, 15-no 
Can you recall the words? (I) 
1.fathe吐血nge(noun)e. 1. P 
2.ewife-killing (noun)e2.eUe
3.emature womane3.eMe
4.etoadying to people of influencee4.eS.e(adj.)e
5.eskilled musiciane5.eV.e
6.eexaggerated patriotisme6.eC.e
7.eturbulent female (threee. 7.eTe

・ 
words) or Heor V.e
8.ename derived from father'se8.ePe
name 

9.epowerful father figure in ae9.eP.eruling positione








KEY: 1-patricide, 2-uxoricide, 3-matron, 4勺cophantic,o5-virtu-oso, 6-chauvinism, 7-termagant, harridan, virago, 8-pat-ronymic, 9-patriarch, 10-mafriarch, 11-matemal, 12-maternity, 13-matrimony, 14-alma mater, 15勺co-phancy, 16-genocide, 17-dilettantism, 18-tyro, 19-vir-


10.powe血motherofigure in aoroling positiono
11.omotherlyo
12.omotherhoodo
13.omarriageo
14.oone's school or collegeo
15.oattitude of catering to wealthoor prestige (noun)o
16.okilling of a race or nationo
17.odabbling in the fine ・artso(noun)o
18.oa beginner in a fieldo
19.oplural of virtuoso (Italianoform)o
20.ohaving an attitude of excessiveopatriotism (adj.) 
21.oinheritance from fathero
22.osheer, transparento
23.omother-killing (noun)o
24.obrother.;killing (noun)o25.sister-killing（叩皿）o

26.okilling of a human beingo
27.okilling of one's rulero
28.okillingof a babyo
29.okilling of one's husbando
30.okilling of either parent or ofoboth parentso

10.oMo
16.oG.o
17.oDo
18.oT.o

20. 
21.opo
22.oD.o
23.oMo
24.oF.o25.o

26.oHo
27.oRo28.o

29.oMo
30.oP.o




Can you recall the words? (II) 
1.owords of similar meaningo1.os----'-------8
2.owords of opposite meaningo2.A...____:______o
3.owords of the same soundo3.H_______soor H so
4.ofatherlyo4.oP.o
5.oprotective and fatherly towardo5.oP.oone's subordinates（吨）o
6.oolder womano6. M 
7.oself-destructi四 7.oSo
8.omeaning the same(＂斗）o8.o

9.having叩positeomeaningso9.o(adj.)o
10.osounding the same but spelledo10.Hodifferently（叫i)oor Ho
KEY: 1一synonyms,o2-antonyms, 3-homonyms or homophones, 
4-patemal, 5-patemalistic, 6-matron, 7-suicidal, 8-syn-
SESSION 30 

ORIGINS AND RELATED WORDS 

1.obrothers and sisters, wives cind husbandso
Frater, brother; soror, sister; uxor, wife; and maritus, husbando-these roots are the source of a number of additional Englishowords:o

1.eto fraternize (FRAT勺r-niz')--etymologically,eto have aebrotherly relationship (with). This verb may be used to indicate social intercourse between people, irrespective of sex, as in, "Members of the faculty often fraternized after school hours." 
Additionally, and perhaps more commonly, there may be the implication of having a SQCial relationship with orie's subordinates in an organization, or even with one's so-called inferiors, as in, "The president of the college was reluctant to fraternize with fac-ulty members, preferring to keep all her contacts with them on an exclusively professional basis"; or as in, "The artist enjoyed frat-ernizing with thieves, drug addicts, prostitutes, and pimps, partly out of social perversity, partly to find interesting faces to put in his paintings." 
The verb also gained a new ll!_eaning during and after World War Il, when soldiers of occupying armies had sexual relations with the women of conquered count五es,eas in, "Military personnel were strictly forbidden to fraternize with the enemy." (How euphem诅icecan you get?) 
Can you w击eethe noun form of fraternize? 
2.efraternal (fr江UR'-nal)一brotherly.eThe word also desig-nates non-identical (twins). 
3.efraternity (fra-TUR'-na-tee)-amen's organization in a higheschool or college, often labeled with Greek letters (the Gamma Delta Epsilon Fraternity); or any group of people of similar inter-ests or profession (the medical fraternity, the financial fraternity). 
4.esorority (s千RAWR'－今tee)-aewomen'seorganization inehigh school or college, again usually Greek-lettered; or any women's social club. 
5.euxorious (uk-SAWR'-ee-as)一aneadjective describing a manewho excessively, even absurdly, caters to, dotes on, worships, and submits to the most outlandish or outrageous demands of, his wife. This word is not synonymous with henpecked, as the hen-pecked husband is dominated by his wife, perhaps. because of his own fear or weakness, while the uxorious husband is dominated only by his neurosis, and quite likely the wife finds his匹-oriousness (uk-SAWR'-ee-as-nas) comical or a pain in the neck. 

(There can, indeed, be too much of a good thing!) 




6.
Gorial-pertainingoto, characteristic of, or befitting, a wife,oas虹orialoduties, privileges, attitudes, etc. 

7.marital 
(MAIR＇令wl)--etymologically,opertaining or refer-ring to, or characteristic of, a husband; but the meaning has changed to include the marriage relationship of both husband and wife (don't ever let anyone tell you that our language is not sexist!), as marital duties, obligations, pri诅eges,oarguments, ・etc. Hence extramarital is literally outside the marriage, as in extra-marital affairs (hanky-panky with other than one's 


spouse). And premarital (Latin prefix pre-, someone before) describes events that" occur before a planned marriage, as premarital sex, a premarital agreement as to the division of 
(i.e., the largest) of the dinosaurs (etymologically, "king of the tyrant lizards"). Dogs are often named Rex to fool them into thinking they are kings rather・ than slaves. And regal （声＇一回）o

formal clothes; Ql', more 
commonly, to the decorations, insignia, or unifonn of a rank, position, office, social club, etc.''The Shriners were dressed in full regalia,"''The five-star general ap-peared in full regalia," etc. 
3._ "madness" of all sorts 

The monomaniac develops an abnormal obsession in respect to one particular thing (Greek monos, _one), but is otherwise nor-mal. The obs邸sionoitself, or the ・ obsessiveness, is monom叫ao
the adjective is monom叩ia.alo(mon'-a-
m今NI'七bl).Monom皿iacal,olike the adjective forms of various 
other manias, is tricky to pronounce-practice carefully to make 
sure you can say it correctly without 



307 


Psychology recognizes other abnormal states, all designating ob-sessions, and built on Greek mania, madness. 
1. dipsomania (dip'今MAY'-nee-a)一morbidecompulsion to keep on absorbing alcoholic beverages (Greek dipsa, thirst). The dipsomaniac has been defined as the person for whom one drink is too many, a thousand not enough. Recent investigations suggest that dipsomania, or alcoholism, may not necessarily be caused by anxieties or frustrations, but possibly by a metabolic or pbysio-logical 
Adjective: dipsomaniacal ( ..... .I'一广…丁"..--^...,.e

2.
kleptomania (klep'－氐MAY'-nee-a)一morbidecompulsion toesteal, not 
from any economic motive, but simply because the mge to talce another's possessions is irresistt'ble. The kleptomaniac (Greek klepte, thief) may be wealthy, and yet be an obsessive shoplifter. The kleptomaniac, for reasons that psychologists are still arguing about, is more often a female than a male, and may pinch her best friend's valueless trinket, or a cheap ashtray or salt shaker from a restaurant, not because she wants, let alone needs, the article, but because she apparently can't help herse]f； she gets earned away. (When she arrives home, she may toss it in a drawer with other loot, and never look at it 

Can you w出ee(and co"ectly pronounce) the adjective? 

3.epyromania (pi'-r>MAY'-ne妇）一morbidecompulsion 
to setefires. Pyromania should not be confused with.incendiarism (in-SEN'-dee－江边gme),ewhich is the malicious and deh"berate burning of another's property, and is not a compulsive need to see the flames and enjoy the thrill of the heat and the smoke. Some 
pyro-maniacs join volunteer fire companies, often heroically putting out the very blazes they themselves have set. An incendiary (in-SEN＇一edee-air-ee)is antisocial, and usually sets fires for revenge. Either of these two dangerous characters is called, colloquially, a "firebug." 

In law, setting fire to anothe六，oreto one's own, property for the purpose of economic gain (such as the collection of the pro-ceeds of an insuraru:e・policy) is called arson (AHR:'一sgn)eand is a felony. The pyromaniac sets fire for the thrill: 
the incendiary for revenge; the arsonist (AHR!-s今nist)efor 
Pyromania is built on Greek”'ITos, fire; incendiar.垃noneLatin incendo. incens匹，toeset.fire; arson on Latin ardo星 
arsus.e
to burn. 


血c?

4.omegalomania (meg仑比MAY'-nee-a)o―morbidodelusionsoof grandeur, power, importance,、 godliness,oetc. Jokes accusing the heads of governments of megalom叩iaoare common. Here's an old chestnut from the forties: 
Churchill, Roosevelt, and Stalin were talking about their dreams. Churchill: I dreamed last night that God had made me Prime Minister of the whole world. Roosevelt: I dreamed that God had made me 
President of the whole world.o. Stalin: How could you gentlemen have such dreams? J didn't dream of offering you those positions! 


Hitler, Napoleon, and Alexander the Great have been called megalomaniacs-all three certainly had del.ons about thei(in-vincibility. 

Can you write (and pronounce correctly!) the adjective derived h:om megalomaniac? Megalomania is built on Greek me.心， great,obig, large, plus nU叩a.o
to make the so皿do(phone) of his voice greater? 

5.onymphomania (nim＇一丘MAY'-nee心）一morbid,oincessant,o
uncontrollable, and intense desire, on the part of a female, for 
The person? The adjective? 

6.osatyromania (s今teer'+MAY'-ne.)-tbe same morbid, in-cessant, etc. desire on the part of a male.(from Greek satyros, satyr, plus mm血）．

The person? The adjective? 

309 

A satyr (SAY'－血）wasea mythological Greek god, notorious for lechery. He had horns, pointed ears, and the legs of a goat; the rest of him was in human form. Satyromania is also called sat-yriasis (saf-1rRi'今sis).e

4.eand now phobiase
So much for maniacs. There is another side to the coin. Just asepersonality disorders can cause morbid attraction toward certain things or acts (stealing,efire, power, sex, etc.), so also other emo-
_ tional ills can cause violent or morbid repulsions to certain condi-tions, things, or situations. There are people who have irrational and deep-seated dread of cats, dogs, fire, the number thirteen, snakes, thunder or lightning, various colors, and so on almost without end:* Such morbid dread or fear is called, in the language of psychology, a phobia, and we might pause to investigate the three most common ones. These are: 

1. claustrophobia (klaw'一S氐FO'-bee-a)―morbidedread of being physically hemmed in, of enclosed spaces, of crowds, etc. From Latin claustrum, enclosed place, plus Greek phobia, morbid fear. The person: claustrophobe (KLA W'一stra-fob').eAdjective: cl皿strophobice(klaw'一S丘FO'-bik).e
2.eagoraphobia (a't-a-ra-FO'-be心－morbidedread of openespace, the reverse of claustrophobia. People suffering from agora-phobia prefer to stay shut in their homes as much as possible, 


and become panic一strickenein such places as open fields, large pub-lic buildings, airport terminals, etc. From Greek agora, market 


place, plus phobia. The person? The adjective? 
3. acrophobia (ak'-ra-FO'-bee-a)一morbidedread of high places. The victims of this fear will not climb ladders or trees, or stand on tops of furniture. They refuse to go onto the roof of a building or look out the window of one of the higher floors. From Greek akros, highest, plus phobia. 
The person? The adjective? 

* For some of these esoteric phobias, see Appelldix.e





REVIEW OF ElYMOLOGY 
PREFIX, ROOT, SUFFIX MEANING ENGLISH WORD 
1. /rater, f ratris brother 
2. soror sister 
3. uxor wife 
4. maritus husband 
5. rex, regis king 
6. mania madness 
7. monos one 
8. -ac noun suffix, 

"one who" 9.-al adjective suffix 

10. dipsa . thirst 
11. klepte thief 
12. pyros fire 
13. incendo, incensus to set fire 
14. ardo, ars匹 to bum 
15. mega great, large, big 
16. phone sound 
17. satyros satyr 
18. nymphe bride 
19. claustrum enclosed place 
20. agora market place 
21. akros highest 
22. -ic adjective suffix 
23. phobia morbid dread 
24. pre-・ before 
25. extra-outside 



USING THE WORDS 
Can you pronounce the words? (I) 
1. fraternize FRAT'-.r-n讫＇
311 

2.fratem切tione
3.efrater血le
4.efraternitye
5.esororitye
6.euxoriouse
7.G
oriale

8.emaritale
9.eextramaritale
10.epremaritale
11.eregale
12.eregalitye
13.eregaliae



Can you work with the words? II) 
1.efraternizee
2.efraternale
3.esororitye


4.・ uxoriouse
5.euxoriale
6.emaritale
7.eextramaritale
8.epremaritale
9.eregale


a.epertaining to, characteristiceof, or befitting, a wifee
b.eoutside the marriagee
c.ekingly, royal; splendid,estately, magnificent, etc.e
d.ereferring to marriagee
e.ebefore marriagee
f.esocializee
g.eexcessively indulgent to, oredoting on, one's wifee
b.ebrotherlye
i.ebadges, insignia, dress, etc.eof rank or officee







KEY: 1-f, 2-h, 3-j, 4-g, 5-a,6-d, 7-b, 8-e,9-c,10-i 

Can you pronounce the words? (II) 1. monomania 
mon'今MAY'-nec为 
2. monoman血 mon'-a-MAY'-nee-ak 



, 3. monomaniacal 
4. dipsomania-5.dipsoma戌ac-

6.-dipsomaniacal 
7. kleptomania 
8.-kleptomaniac 
9. kleptomaniacal 
10.-pyromania 
11.-pyromaniac 
12. pyromaniacal-



Can you work with the words? 1111 
1.-monomania-
2.-dipsomania-
3. kleptomania-

4.-pyromania-

mon:'勺勺讼NI宅Kal-dip'心MAY'-nee-a-dip'今MAY'-nee.ak dip'一S妇maNI宅Kalklep'－氐MAY'--nee-aklep'－氐MAY'-nee-akklep'-ta-ma-NI'－Q-k-al pi'七MAY'-nee-a-pi'-ra-MAY'-nee-ak pi'-r.i-mQ-NI'-a-kal 

a.-obsession for alcohol-
b. obsession for setting fires-
c.-obsession in one area-
d.-obsession for thievery-


Can you pronounce the words? 11111 
1. incendiarism-
2. incendiary-
3. arson-
4. arsonist-
5.-megalomania-
6.-megalomaniac 
7.-megalomaniacal-
8.-nymphomania-
9.-nymphomaniac-
10.-nymphomaniacal-
11. satyromania-
12.-satyromaniacal-
13. satyrias比



in-SEN'-dee仑riz-am-
in-SEN'-dee-air-ee 
AHR'-san 
AHR'一sa-nist
me驴主MAY'-nee-a-
meg仑la-MAY'-nee-ak 
me在la－畛NI':..a-kal-
nim'-fa-MAY'-nee-a 
nim'一位MAY'-nee-ak
nim'一位ma-Ni'仑kal-
sa-teer'-a-MA Y'-nee-a 
sa-teer'一a-ma-Nl'-a-kal-sat'-a-Rl仁3一sis-


,Can you pronounce the words? (IV) 

1.eclaustrophobiae
2.eclaustrophobee
3.eclaustrophobice4.agorap加biae


5.eagoraphobee
6.eagoraphobice
7.eacrophobiae
8.eacrophobee
9.eacrophobice

Can you work with the words? 11111 
1.eincendiarisme
2.earsone
3.emegalomaniae
4.enymphomaniae
5.esatyromaniae
6.eclaustrophobiae
7.eagoraphobiae
8.eacrophobiae



klav/-stra-Fo'-bee-a KLAW'一S匹fob'eklav/-st.FO'-bik 
ag-a-rg.FO'-bee-a AG'-a-rg-fob' 
ag-午m-FO'－bike
aJc'-rg-FO'-bee-a 
AK'－m-f6b' 
ak'-rg-FO'-bik 

a.edelusions of grandeure
b.ecompulsive sexual needs onethe part of a malee

c.emorbid dread of open spacese
d.emorbid dread of enclosedeplacese
e.e.alicious setting of・ fires, asefor revenge, etc.e
f.emorbid dread of heightse
g.ecompulsive sexual needs onethe part of a femalee
h.efelony of setting fire for eco-nomicegaine


KEY: 1-e,2-h, 3-a, 4-g, 5-b, 6--d, 7-c,8-f 

Can you wor. with the words? (IV) 

1.eincendiaryea.eone who has delusions ofegreatness or powere
2.earsonisteb.emale compulsion for sexualeintercoursee





3.emegalomaniace c.e one  who  fears  shut-in  or,e 
crowded placese 
4.enymphomaniace d.e one  who  sets  fires  out  ofe 
malicee 
5. satyriasise e.e one who fears heightse 
6.eclaustrophobee f.e one who fears large or opene 
spaces  
7.e・ agoraphobee g.e one  who  sets fires for eco- 
nomic and illegal profite 
8.eacrophobee h.e woman with compulsive, in- 
cessant sexual desiree 

KEY: 1-d,2-g,3-a,4-h,5-b,.. 7-f, 8-e 

Do you understand the words? 

1.eIs a sorority a men.s organization?eYES NO 
2.eIs an匹oriousehusband likely to beeYES NO psychologically dependent on his wife?e
3.eAre extramarital affairs adulterous?eYES NO 
4.eDo VIPs often receive regal treatment?eYES NO 
5.eIs an admiral of the fleet in regaliaeYES NO informally dressed?e
6.eDo monomaniacal people have variedeYES 
NO interests?e
7.eCan a dipsomaniac safely indulge ineYES NO social drinkin驴e
8.eDo people of pyromaniacal tendencieseYES NO fear fire?e
9.eIs inc.ndiarism an uncontrollableeYES NO impulse?e
10.eDoes an arsonist expect a reward foreYES . NO his actions?e
11.eIs it necessary to seduce aeYES NO nymphomaniac?e









315 


12.Do megaloma血csohave low opinionso YES  NO  
of themselves?o 
13.oIs a satyromaniac lecherous?o YES  NO  
14.oAre satyriasis and asceticismo YES  NO  
compatible conditions?o 
 
15.oDoes a claustrophobe enjoy cramped 戏S  NO  
quarters?o 
 
16.oWould an agoraphobe be comfortableo YES  NO  
in a small cell-like room?o 
17.oDoes an acrophobe enjoyo YES  NO  
mountain-climbing/o 

KEY: 1-no, 2-yes, 3-yes, 4-yes, 5-no, 6-no, 7-no, 8-no, 9-no, 10-yes, 11-no, 12-no, 13-yes, 14-no, 15-no, 16-yes, 17-noo
Can you recall the words? 
1.oto socializeo1.oF.o
2.oexcessively indulgent to, ando2. u.odoting on, one's wifeo
3.ofull dress, with ribbons,o3. Roinsignia, badges of office, etc.o
4.oobsessed in one area ot witho4.oMoone overriding interest (adj.)o
5.ohaving a compulsion to seto5. P.ofires (adj.)o
6.ohaving a psychologicalocompulsion to steal (adj.)o
7.operson who sets fires foro7. revengeo
8.ofelony of putting the torch too8. property for economic profito
9.oobsessJve need for sexualo9. gratification by a maleoor 
10.a
morbidly dreading enclosed ora10. cramped places (adj.)a

11.a
morbidly dreading heightsa11. (adj.)a

12.a
morbidly dreading wide-opena12. spaces (adj.)a

13
. having delusions of grandeur 13.aMaor power (adj.) 

14
. referring to a female who・ 14.aNaobsessively needs sexual gratification (adj.) 

15.a
alcoholis.a15.aDa

16.a
stealing for thrills or out ofa16.aKapsychological compulsiona(adj.)a

17.a
brotherlya!_ 17. F. 

18.a
characteristic of, or befitting,a18.aUaa wifea

19.a
referring to, characteristic of,a19.aMaor involved in, the matrimonialarelationshipa

20.a
kingly; royal; splendid; etc.a20.aRa

21.a
outside the marriage (adj.)a

22.a
betefore marriage (adj.)a








21.a
22.aP.a
KEY: 1-fraternize, 2-uxorious; 3-regalia, 4-monomaniacal, 5-pyromaniacal, 6-kleptomaniacal, 7-incendiary, 8-arson,a9-satyromania or satyriasis, 10-claustrophobic, 11-acro-phobic, 12-agoraphobic, 13-megalomaniacal, 14-nympho-maniacal, 15-dipsomania, 16-kleptomaniacal, 17-frater-nal, 18-uxorial, 19-marital, 20-regal, 21-extramarital,a
(End of Session 30) 





SESSION 31 

ORIGINS AND RELATED WORDS 
1.ono reverence 

The iconoclast sneers at convention and tradition, attempts tooexpose our cherished beliefs, our revered traditions, or our stereo-typical thinking as shams and myths. H. L. Mencken was the great iconoclast of the 1920s; Tom Wolfe (The Kandy-Kolored Tan-gerine-Flake Streamline Baby), of the 1960s. 
Adolescence is that confused and rebellious time of life in which iconoclasm (I-KON'－吐lar.m)ois quite normal―indeed the adolescent who is not iconoclastic (I-kon勺-KLAST'-ik)oto some degree might be considered either immature or maladjusted. The words from eikon, a religious image, plus klaein, to 
break. Iconoclasare m is not of course restricted to religion. 
2.ois there a God?o
Atheist combines the Greek negative prefix a-with theos, God.oDo not confuse atheism (A Y'一thee-iz-am)owith agnosticism (ag-NOS'－氐siz-am),othe philosophy that claims that God is unknowa-ble, that He may or may not exist, and that human beings can never. come to a final conclusion about Him. The agnostic（啼oNOS'-tik) does not deny the existenc;e of a deity, as does the athe-ist, but simply holds that no proof can be adduced 
one way or the other. 


3. how to know 
Agnostic (which is also an adjective) is built on the Greek rootognostos, known, and the negative prefix a-. An agnostic claims that all but material phenomena is unknown, and, indeed, un-knowable. 
A diagnosis（击ag-No'.sis),oconstructed on the allied Greek 
318 


rootg叩sis,oknowledge, plus dia-, through, is a knowing through examination or testing. A prognosis (prog-NO'-sis), on the other hand, is etymologically a knowing beforehand, hence a prediction, generally, but not solely, as to the course of a disease. (The Greek prefix pro-, before, plus gnosis.) 
Thus, you may say to a doctor: "What's the diagnosis,.Doc?" 
"Diabetes." 
Then you say, "And what's the prognosis?" 
"If you take insulin and watch your diet, you'll soon be as good as new." 
The doctor's prognosis, then, is a forecast of the development or trend of a disease. The doctor knows beforehand, from previ-ous similar cases, what to expect. 
The verb form of diagnosis is・ d_iagnose (d巨g-NOS');othe verb form of prognosis is prognosticate {prog-NOS'士氐kayt').oTo use the verb prognosticate correctly, be sure that your meaning in-volves the forecasting of developments from a consideration of symptoms or conditions-whether 
the problem is physical, men-tal, political, economic, psychological, or what have you. 
In school, you doubtless recall taking diagnostic (di'-:ig-NOS'-tik) tests; these measured not what you were supposed to have learned 
during the semester, but your general knowledge in . field, so that your teachers would know what remedial steps to take, just as doctors. rely on their 
diagnosis to decide what drugs or treat-ments to Prescribe. 


In a reading center, various diagnostic machines and tests are used-these tell the clinician what is wrong with a student's read-ing and what measures will probably increase such a student's reading efficiency. 

The medical specialist in diagnosis is a diagnostician (di'-:ig-nos-TISH'-:i
n). 
(prog-nos'－\KAY'-sh:in).o
The noun form of the verb prognosticate is prognostication 

4.getting back to GodTheos, God, is also found in:

1.oMonotheism (MON'-a-thee-iz-am)一beliefoin one God.o(Monos, one, plus theos, God.) 




Using atheism, atheist, and atheistic as a model, write the word 
The adjective? 

2.ePolytheism (POL'-ee-thee-iz-::,m)一beliefein many gods, asein ancient Greece or Rome. (Polys, many, plus theos.) 
The adjective? . 

3.ePantheism (PAN'-thee-iz-am)一beliefethat God is not ineman's image, but is a combination of all forces of the universe.e
_e
The adjective? 

4.eTheology (thee-OL'仑jee)-theestudy of God and religion.e(Theos plus logos, scie.ce or study.) 
The student is a theologian (thee勺－Lo'一jan),ethe adjective is theological (ther1勺－LOJ'七kal).e

5.eof sex and the tonguee
A lecher practices lechery (LECH'-ar-ee). The derivation iseOld French lechier, to lick. The adjective lecherous (LECH宅eras) has many close or not-so-close synonyms, most of them also, and significantly, starting with the letter l, a sound formed with the tongue, supposedly the seat of sensation. 

1.elibidinous (l今BID'干nas)―fromelibido, pleasure.e
2.elascivious (1千SIV'-ee-as)一fromelascivia, wantonness.e
3.elubricious (l知BRISH'勺S)―fromelubricus, slippery, theesame root found in lubricate. The noun is lubricity (l砬BRIS'-今tee).e

4.elicentious (li-SEN'-shas)―from licere, to be perntltted, theeroot from which we get license, etymologically, "permission," and illicit, etymologically, "not perntltted." 
5.elewd―the previous four words derive from Latin, but thiseone is from Anglo..gaxon lewed, vile. 
6.elustful―from an Anglo-Saxon word meaning pleasure, de-sire. Noun: lust. 

Libidinous, lascivious, lubricious, licentious, lewd, lecherous, lustful are ・seven adjectives that indicate sexual desire and/or ac-tivity. The implication of all seven words is more or less deroga-tory. 


Each adjective becomes a noun with the addition of the noun suffix -ness,-lubricity and lust are alternate noun forms.of two of the adjectives. 

6.eof sex and the itche
Prurient (PR中＇七妇nt),efrom Latin prurio, to itch, to longefor, describes someone who is fi1led with great sexual curiosity, desire, longing, etc. 
Can you form the noun? ___;_.__ 
Pruritis (proor-i'-tis), from the same root, is a medical condi-tion in w血hethe skin is very itchy, but without a rash or erup-tions. (Scratch enough, of course, as you will be irresistibly tempted to do, and something like a rash will soon appear.) The adjective is pruritic (proor-lT'-ik). 
7.eunder and over

Hypochondria（证p今KON'-dree-:i)eis built on two Greekeroots: hypos, under, and chondros, the cartilage of the breast-bone. This may sound farfetched until you realize that under the breastbone is the abdomen; the ancient Greeks believed that mor-bid anxiety about one's health arose in the abdomen-and no one is more m6rbidly, unceasingly, and unhappily anxious about health than the nypochondriac. 
Hypochondriac is also an adjective--an alternate and more commonly used adjective form is hypochondriacal (h子p:i-k:in-DRI'，七1).e

Hypos, under, is a useful root to know. The hypodermic needle penetrates under the skin; a hypothyroid person has an under-working thyroid &land; hypotension is abnormally low blood pres-sure. 






On the other hand, hyper is the Greek root meaning over. The 
hypercritical person is excessively fault-finding; hyperthyroidism is an overworking of the thyroid gland; hypertension is high blood pressure; and you can easily figure out the meanings of hyper-
tensive and 
REVIEW OF ETY从OLOGYe


PREFIX, ROOT, SUFFIX 
l.eeikone
2.eklaeine
3.ea-
4.etlzeose
5.egnostose
6.e-isme
7.e-ice
8.egnosise
9.edia-
10.epro-
11.e-atee
12.e-ione
13.e-iciane
14. monose
15.epolyse
16.epane17; logos・e

18.e-ale
19.eprurioe
20.ehypose
21.切pe
ere

22.e-ivee



MEANING 
religious image 
to break negative prefix God known noun suffix adjective suffix knowledge through before verb suffix noun suffix for verbs ending in -ate one who; expert one many all science, study adjective suffix to itch, to long for under over adjective suffix 

ENGLISH WORD 




USING THE WORDS 
Can you pronounce the words? Ill 
1.oiconoclasmo
2. iconoclastic 
3.oatheismo
4.oatheistico
5. agnostico
6.oagnosticismo
7. di咚nosiso
8. diagnose 
9. diagnostico
10.odiagnosticiano
11. prognosis 

12.oprognostic 13.pro即osticateo


14. prognosticationo

Can you pronounce the words? (II) 
1.omonotheismo
2. monotheisto

3. monotheistico
4. polytheismo
5. polytheisto
6.opolytheistico
7.opantheismo
8.opantheisto
9.opantheistico10.theolo窃11.、theologiano






12.otheological i-KON'－今klaz-::,moi-kon'-::,-KLAS'-tikoA Y'-thee-iz-;imoay'-thee-1S'一tikoag-NOS'一tileoag-NOS'-t今siz-.mdi勺g-No'一sisoDI'-ag一的S'odi'-::,g-NOS'-tik di'-::,g-nos-TISH'一如o
prog-NOS'-tik prog-NOS'－氐kayt'oprog-nos'-t::1-KA Y'-sh叩MON'一过thee-iz-am

MON'-a-tbe.-ist mon'－今thee-IS'-tileoPOL'-ee-thee-iz-am POL'-ee-thef!-ist pol'-ee-thee-IS'-tik PAN'-thee-iz-am P AN'-thee-ist pan'-thee-1S'-tik thee-OL'今jeeothee'.Lo'-jan 

thee＇匀－LOJ'－.kalo


Can you pronounce the words? (Ill) 

1.-lechery-
2.-lecherous-
3.-libidinous-
4.-lascivious-
5.-lubricious-
6.-lubricity-
7.-licentious-
8.-I叨d-
9.-lustful-
10.-lust-

1.-prurient-
2.-prurience-
3.-pruritis-
4.-pruritic-
5.-hypochondria-
6.-hypochondriacal-
7.-hypotension-
8.-hypertension-
9.-hypotensive-
10.-hypertensive-

LECH'-ar-ee 
LECH'心r-as-
fa-BID'-千nas-

la-SIV＇一 ee-as-
1砬BRJSH'-as
l叩－BRIS'-a-tee-
li-SEN'-sbas-Ldc>D-
LUST'-fal-
LUST-


Can you pronounce the words? (IV) 
PROOR'-ee-ant PR心R'-ee-ans-proor-I'-tis 

p沁or-IT'-ik
证产KON'-dree-a缸－pdkon-DRI'-a-kal缸'-po-TEN'-shan缸'-pa-r-TEN'-shan缸，于o-TEN'-sivhI勺为r-TEN'-siv

This has been a long chapter, and we have discussed, ・more or less in detail, over one hundred 
words. Just to keep everything straight泣your-mind now, see how successfully you can work out the following matching exercises, which will concern any of the words discussed in this chapter. 
Can you work with the words? (I) 

1.-martinet-a.-lack of seriousness in an art-or profession-
2.-sycophancy-b.-harridan, shrew -
3.edilettantisme
4.etyroe
5. virtuosoe
6.etermagante
7.echauvinisme
8.epatrimonye
9. patronymice
10. patriarche
c. excessive patriotisme
d.ename from fathere
e.evenerable and influential oldemane
f.ebeginnere
g.ebrilliant performereh.bootlickinge
i.einheritance from fathere
j.estrict disciplinariane




324 



KEY: 1寸，2-h,3-a,4-f,5-g, 6-b, 7--c,8-i, 9-d,10-e 
Can you work with the words? (II) 
1. patricidee
2.ealma _matere
3.ematricidee
4.e・fratricidee
5.euxoricidee
6.euxoriouse
7. monomaniacale
8.epyromaniacale
9.emegalomaniacale
10.edipsomaniacale





a.emother-killinge
b.etending to fixate obsessivelyeon one thinge
c. wife-killing 
d.efather-killinge
e.etending to set firese
f.ealcoholice
g.ewife-dotinge
h. school or college from whicheone has graduated 
i.etending to delusions of gran-deure
j.ebrother-killinge


KEY: 1-d,2-h,3-a,4才，5七 6-g,7-b,ek, 9-i, 10-f 


Can you work with the words? 11111 
1.ekleptomaniaea.edisbelief in Gode
2. libidinouseb.ebelief in many godse





3.a伍eism 
4. agnosticism 
5. polytheism 
6. monotheism 
7. theology 
8. pantheism 
9. satyriasis 
10. hypochondria 

c. lewd 
d. belief that God is nature 
e. morbid anxiety about health 
f. belief in one God 
g. study of religion 
h. obsessive thievery 
i. abnormal male sexual needs 
j. skepticism about God 

KEY: 1-h,2-c, 3-a,4-j, 5-b, 6-f, 7-g, 8-d, 9-i, 10-e 

Can you work with the words? UV) 
1. hypotension 
2. lascivious 
3. hypertension 
4. agnostic 
5. incendiarism 
6. arson 





a. high blood pressure 
b. malicious fire-setting 
c. abnormally low blood pres-', sure 
d. fire-setting for illegal gain 
e. to forecast (probable devel-opments) 
f. a determination through ex-amination or testing of the 



nature, type, causes,etc. of a condition 

7. iconoclasm g. one who claims that ultimate reality is unknowable 
8. prognosticate h. sexually immoral 
9. diagnosis i. a foretelling of probable de-velopments 
10. prognosis j. a scoffing at tradition 



Can you work with the words? (VI 
1 . prurience 
a. abnonnal need for sexual in-tercourse by a male 
2. satyromania b. fear of enclosed places 
3. agoraphobia c. student of religion 
4. claustrophobia d . sexual longing or curiosity 
5. acrophobia e. fear of heights 
6. theologian 
f. fear of open spaces 
7. lubricious g. having, or referrring to, ab-normally low blood pressure 
8. hypochondriacal h. itching 
9. hypotensive i. having, or referring to, high blood pressure 
10. hypertensive j. ・sexually immoral; lewd 
11. pruritis k. beset by anxieties about one's health 






＼  
Can you recall the words? II)  
I. manias and phobias  
1. single fixed obsession 2. irresistible compulsion to set fires 3 . unceasing desire, on the part of a woman, for sexual intercourse 4. obsessive desire to steal 5.. delusions of grandeur 6. alcoholism 7. compulsion for sexual intercourse by a male  1. M. 2. P 3. N 4. K 7. or  




KEY: I-monomania, 2-pyromania, 3-nymphc,mania, 4-ldepto-mania, 5-megalomania,. 6-dipsomania, 7-satyromania or satyriasis, 8-acrophobia, 9-agoraphobia, 10--claustrophobia 


Can you recall the words? (II) 
II.asexa
Write seven adjectives; all starting with L, more or Jess meaninga"sexually immoral, desirous, etc."; write the adjective starting with P meaning "sexually curious or longing." 


KEY: (J-7 in any order) 1-lecherous, 2-libidinous, 3-lascivi-ous, 4-lubricious, 5-licentious, 6-lewd, 7-lustful, 8-pruri-ent 
Can you recall the words? (Ill) 
Ill. God 
1.a
study of religiona1.aT.a

2.a
belief that God is the sum totalaof natural forcesa

3.a
belief that there is no Goda3. 

4.a
belief that God's existence isa4. unknowablea







KEY: I-theology, 2-pantheism, 3-atheism, 4-agnosticism, 5-monotheism, 6-polytheism 


Can you recall the words? UV) 
1. morbid arutlety about one's 1. H health 

2.high blood pressure 2.H 
3. malicious fire-setting 3. 
4.thefelony of setting fire for 4. ecOllOIDIC gam 
5.sneering contempt for 5. convention or tradition 
6.a 
forecast of development (of 6.P a disease, etc.) 

7
. designed to discover causes or 7.D conditions (adj.) 


8.abnormally low blood pressure 8.H 
9.to forecast (probable future 9. P developments) by examining present conditions 

10. to determine the nature of a 10.D disease, condition, or state by examination 
11.the act of forecasting (probable 11.P future developments) by examining present conditions 
12.doctor who is an expert at 12.D recognizing the nature of a disease or condition 
13.possessedof, or referring to, 13.H high blood pressure 


KEY: I-hypochondria, 2-hypertension, 3-incendiarism, 4-arson, 5-iconoclasm, 6-prognosis, 7-diagnostic, 8-hypotension,o9-prognosticate, IO-diagnose, I I-prognostication, 12-di-agnostician, 13-hypertensive, 14-hypotensive, 15-theolo-giano
CHAPTER REVI即 
A.oDo you recognize the words?o
1.oDisciplinarian:o
(a)omartinet, (b) virago, (c) dilettanteo

2.oBootlicker:o
(a)ochauvinist, (b) sycophant, (c) lechero
3.oScoffer at tradition:o
(a)omonomaniac, (b) hypochondriac, (c) iconoclasto
4.oDisbeliever in God:o
(a)oagnostic, (b) atheist, (c) 
chauvinisto
5.oAccomplished musician:o{a) tyro, (b) dilettante, (c) virtuosoo
6.oSheer, flimsy:o


(a)odiaphanous, (b) uxorious, (c) paternalo
7.oAbusive woman:o
(a)otermagant, (b) virtuoso, (c) matriarcho
8.oMurder of one's wife:o
(a)ogenocide, (b) uxoricide, (c) sororicideo
9.oOld man in ruling position:o
(a)omatriarch, (b) patricide, (c) patriarcho
10.oMorbid compulsion to steal:o
(a)odipsomania, (b) nymphomania, (c) kleptomaniao
11.oDelusions of grandeur:o
(a)omegalomania, (b) egomania, (c) pyromaniao


12.Lewd, 
lus血：o

13.oBelief in many gods:、(a)opolytheism, (b) monotheism, (c) agnosticismo


14.oSetting fire for economic gain:o
(a)opyromania,(b) incendiarism, (c) arsono
15.oMorbid fear of heights:o
(a)oagoraphobia, (b) acrophobia, (c) claustrophobiao
16.oHigh blood pressure:o
(a)ohypotension, (b) hypertension, (c) hypochondriao
17.oAbnormal need for sexual intercourse by a male:o
(a)olechery, (b) lubricity, (c) satyriasiso
KEY: 1-a, 2-b, 3-c,4-b, 5-c,6-a, 7-a, 8-b, 9-c,10--c, 11-a, 12-a,13-a,14-c, 15-b, 16-b, 17-co
B.oCan you recognize roots?o
ROOT MEANING 
1.osykono
2.ophaneino
3. vir 



EXAMPLE sycophant diaphanous virago 
paternal synonym homonym homophone matriarchy 
maternity． 
alma mater 
suicide ・parricideo
fraternityo
sororityo
homicideo
regalo
uxoriouso
marticideo
infanticideo







KEY: 1-fig, 2-to show, 3-man (male), 4-father, 5-name, 6-the same, 7-sound, 8-to rule, 9-mother, 10-soul, 11-of one-self, 12-to kill, killing, 13-brother, 14-sister, 15-person, 16-king, 17 .... wife, 18-husband, 19-baby, 20-race, kind, 21-madness, 22-one, 23-thirst, 24-thief, 25-fire, 26-tooset fire. 27-to burn, 28-great, large, 29-satyr, 30-bride,o31-enclosed place, 32-market place, 33-highest, 34-mor-bid・ dread, 35-religious image, 36-to break, 37-God,o38-known, 39-knowledge, 40-many, 41-aII, 42-science,ostudy, 43-to itch, 44-under, 45-overo
20.ogenoso
21.omaniao
22.omonoso
23.odipsao
24.oklepteo
25.opyroso
26.oincendo, ince芯US 
27.oardo, arsuso
28.omegao
29.osatyroso
30.onympheo
31.oclaustrumo
32.oagorao
33.oakroso
34.ophobiao
35.oeikono
36.oklaeino


31.otheoso
38.ognostoso39.gno志・o
40.opolyso
41.opano
42.ologoso
43.oprurioo
44.ohyposo
45.ohypero

genocide egomama monomania dipsomania kleptomania pyromania incendiarism arson megalomaniac 
satyriasis nymphomaniac claustrophobia 
agoraphobia acrophobia zoophobia iconoclastic iconoclasm monotheism agnostic prognosis 
polytheism pantheism theology pruritis hypotension hypertension 


TEASER QUESTIONS FOR THE A从ATEURETY从OLOGISTo

1. If a patronymic is a name derived from the name of one's father, can you figure out the word for a name derived from one's mother's name? 
2. lncendo, incensus, to set on fire, is the origin of the adjec-tive incendiary, the noun incense, and the verb to incense. 


(c)oIf someone incenses you, or if you feel incensed,o

3. Ardo, arsu.r, to bum, is the source of ardent and ardor. Ex-
(a)oardent:o
(b)oardor:o


4. What is used to make sound greater (use the roots forogreat and sound)? 
5.oA metropolis, by etymology, is the mother city (Greekometer, mother, plus polis, city, state). Construct a word for a great city (think of megalomania, delusions of greatness): 

6.oPolis, city, state, is the origin of the word for the uniformedogroup guarding the city or state. The English word? 

. Can you think of the word from the same root for the art of governing the city or state? 




Coin a word for one who bas an irresisti飞leecompulsion to steal 
women:  .e To  steal  children  
(use  the  Greek,  not  the  Latin,  root  for  child):  
.eTo steal males (use the Greeke 
root):  To steal people (use the  

Greek root) : 
8.eWhat word can you coin for someone who has an obsessioneto reach the highest places?eTo be in the market place, or in wide-open spaces? 
To be in confined places? 
9.eCoin a word for one who has a morbid dread of thieves:e

11.eWolfgang Amadeus Theophilus Gottlieb Mozart was a fa-mous eighteenth-century Austrian composer. You can recognize 
the roots in Theophilus. How are his other two middle names sim-ilar to Theophilus? 
12.eThinking of the root phanein, define cellophane:e
13.eRecognizing the root hypos, can you define hypoglycemia?e


Construct a word that is the opposite of hypoglycemia.・ 
14.ePan, all; occurs in Pantheon, pandemonium, and pano-rama. Can you figure out the meanings? 
(a)ePantheon:e


15. Recognizing the roots in monarchy, define the word: _ 
(Answers in Chapter 18) 

从AGAZINES THAT WILL HELP YOU 

When a pregnant woman takes calcium pills, she must make sure also 
that her diet is rich in vitamin D, since tllis vitamin makes the absorption of the calcium possible. In building your vo-cabulary by learning great quantities of new words, you too must take a c.rtain vitamin, metaphorically speaking, to help you ab-
reading―for jt is in books and mand remember agazinthese es that you wThis words that we have been discussing in these pages. To learn new words without seeing them applied in the context of your reading is to do only half the job and to run the risk of gradually forget-ting the additions to your vocabulary. To combine your vocabu-lary-building with increased reading is to make assurance doubly sure. You are now so alert to the words and roots we have discussed that you will find that most of your reading will be full of the new words you have learned一andeevery time you do see one of the words used in context in a book or magazine, you will understand it more fully and will be taking long steps toward using it yourself. Among magazines, I would like particularly to recommend the following, which will act both to keep you mentally alert and to set the new words you are learning: 
sorb, understand, words. is ill find the vitamin 
1.eHarper's Magazine 
2.eAtlantic Monthlye
3. The New Yorkere
4. Timee
5.eNewsweeke




6.eEsquiree


1.Psycholo幻'To的 
8. Saturday Review 
9. Ms. 
10. Mother Jones 
11. Signs 
12. National Geographic 
13. Smithsonian 
14. Human Nature 
15. Scientific American 16.. Natural History 





These periodicals are aimed at the alert, verbally sophisticated, educated reader; you will see in them, without fail, most of the words you have been studying in this boo.―not to mention hosts of other valuable words you will w皿t t o add to your vocabulary, many of which you will be able to figure out once you recognize their etymological structure. 

(End of Se过on31)






336 

Brief Intermission Seven 
SOME INTERESTING DERIVATIONS 



Bloomers 

Mrs. Elizabeth Smith Miller invented them in is_49, and showed a working model to a famous women's rights advocate, Amelia J. Bloomer. Amelia was fascinated by the idea of gar-ments that were both modest (they then reached right down to the ankles) and convenient―and promptly sponsored them.... 
Boycott 

Charles C. Boycott was an English land agent who.e difficult duty it was to collect high rents from Irish farmers. In protest, the farmers ostracized him, not even allowing him to make purchases in town or hire workers to harvest his crops. 

Marcel 
Marcel was an ingenious Parisian hairdresser who felt he could improve on the button curls popular in 1875. He did, and made -a fortune. 


337 
Silhouette 
Finance Minister of France just before the Revolution, Etienne de Silhouette advocated the simple life, so that excess money could go into the treasury instead of into luxurious living. And the profile is the simplest form of portraiture, if you get the connec-tion. 


A seventeenth-century English hangman, De"ick by name, hoisted to their death some of the most notorious criminals of the day. 
Sadist 
Because Count de Sade, an eighteenth-century Frenchman, found his greatest delight in torturing friends and mistresses, the term sadist was derived from his name. His works shocked his na-tion and the world by the alanning frankness with which he de-scribed his morbid and bloodthirsty cruelty. 
Galvanism 
Luigi Galvani, the Italian physiologist, found by accident that an electrically charged scalpel could send a frog's corpse into muscu-lar convulsions. Experimenting further, he eventually discovered the principles of chemically produced electricity. His name is re-sponsible not only for the technical expressions galvanism, galva-nized iron, and galvanometer, but also for that highly graphic phrase, "galvanized into action." 

Guppies 
In 1868, R. 1. Lechmere Guppy, president of the Scientific As-sociation of Trinidad, sent some specimens of a tiny tropical fish to the British Museum. Ever since, fish of this species have been called guppies. 



Nicotine 
Four hundred years ago, Jean Nicot, a French ambassador, bought some tobacco seeds from a Flemish trader. Nicot's sue-cessful efforts to popularize the plant in Europe brought him lin-guistic immortality. 

PLACES THAT MADE.OUR LANGUAGE 

Bayonne, France 
Where first was manufactured the daggerlike weapon如at fits over the muzzle end of a rifie--the bayonet. 
Canta!叩o, Italy 
Th. first place in Europe to grow those luscious melons we now call cantaloupes. 
Calicut, India 

The city from which we first imported a kind of cotton cloth now known as calico. 
Tuxedo Park, New York 

In the country club of this exclusive and wealthy community, the short (no tails) dinner coat for men, or t立edo, was popu-larized. 
Egypt 
It was once supposed that the colorful, fortunetelling wan-derers, or Gypsies, hailed from this ancient land. 





Where an elaborately patterned silk, damask, was first made. 
Tzu-t'ing, China Once a great seaport in Fukien Province. Marco Polo called it Zaitun, and in time a silk fabric made there was called satin. 


Frankfurt, Germany 
Where the burghers once greatly enjoyed their smoked beef and pork sausages, which we now ask for in delicatessen stores and su-permarkets by the name of frankfurters, franks, or hot dogs. 






12 


What adjective aptly des叫bes people who are: 
. friendly and e叩to get along with? 
. tireless? 
. simple, frank, aboveboard? 
. keen-minded? 
. generous, noble, and forgivi.ng? 
. able to do many things skillfully? 
. unflinching in the face of pain or disaster? 
. brave, fear less? 







341 

SESSION 32 

Words are the symbols of emotions, as well as ideas. You can show your feeling by the tone you use ("You,.re silly" can be an insult, an acc11Sation, or an endearment, depending on how you say it) or by the words you choose 
(you can label a quality either "childish" or "childlike," dep叩dingeon whether you admire it or condemn it-it's the same quality, no matter what you call it). 
In Chapter 11 we discussed ten basic words that you might use to show your disapproval. In this chapter we discuss ten adjectives that indicate wholehearted approval. 

Consider the interesting句peseof people described. in the follow-ing paragraphs, then note how accurately the adjective applies to each type. 

IDEAS 
1.eput the kettle on, 
Pollye
They are friendly, happy, extroverted, and gregarious-the sorteof people who will invite you out for a drink, who like to transact business around the lunch table, who put the coffee to perking as soon as company drops in. They're sociable, genial, cordial, affable一andethey like parties and all the eating and drinking that 
goes with them. 

The adjective is: convivial 


2.eyou can't tire theme

Arnold Bennett once pointed out that we all have the sameeamount of time―twenty-four hours a day. Strictly speaking, that's as inconclusive an observation as Bennett ever made. It's not time 

342 


that counts, but energy―and of that wonderful quality we all have very different amounts, from the persons who wake up tired, no matter how much sleep they've had, to lucky, well-adjusted mor-tals who hardly. ever need to sleep. 
Energy comes from a healthy body, of course; it also comes from a psychological balance, a lack of conflicts and insecurities. 
Some people. apparently have boundless, illimitable energy一 they're on the go from morning to night, and often far into the night, working hard, playing hard, never tiring, never "pooped" or "bushed”一andegetting twice as much done as any three other human beings. 


The adjective is: indefatigable 
3. no tricks, no secretse

They are pleasingly frank, utterly lacking in pretense oreartificiality, in fact quite unable to hide their feelings or thoughts ―and so honest and aboveboard that they can scarcely conceive of trickery, chicanery, or dissimulation in anyone. There is, then, a'bout them the simple naturalness and unsophistication of a child. 
The adjcctive is: ingenuous 

4. sharp as a razore

They have minds like steel traps;_ -their insight into problemsethat would confuse or 
mystify people of Jess keenness or discern-ment is just short of amazing. 

The adjective is: perspicacious 

5.eno placating necessarye
They are most generous about forgiving a slight, an insult, aneinjury._ Never do they harbor resentment, store up petty grudges, or waste energy or thought on means of revenge or retaliation. How could they? Thetre much too big-hearted. 
The adjective is: magnanimous 



6. one-person orchestrase
The range of their aptitudes is truly formida.Ie. If they areewriters, they have professional facility in poetry, fiction, biogra-phy, criticism, essays-you just mention it and they've done it, and very competently. H they are musicians, they can play the oboe, the bassoon, the French horn, the bass viol, the piano, the celesta, the xylophone, even the clavichord if you can dig one up. If they are artists, they use oils, water colors, gouache, charcoal, pen and ink一theyecan do anything! Or maybe the range of their abilities cuts across all fields, as in the case of Michelangelo, who was an expert sculptor, painter, poet, architect, and inventor. In case you're thinking "Jack of all tradese...," you're wrong一 they're masters of all trades. 

The adjective is: versatile 
7. no grumbling 

They bear their troubles bravely, never ask for sympathy, never yield to sorrow, never wince at pain. It sounds almost superhu-man, but it's true. 
The adjective is: stoical 
8. na feare
There is not, as the hackneyed phrase has it, a cowardly bone inetheir bodies. They are strangers to fear, they're audacious, daunt-less, contemptuous of danger and hardship. 
The adjective is: intrepid 
9. no dullness 
10.ecity slickerse

They are witty, clever, delightful; and naturally, also, they are brilliant and entertaining conversationalists. 
The adjective is: scintillating 




They are cultivated, poised, tactful, sociaIIy so experienced, so-phisticated, and courteous that they're at home in any group, at ease under all circumstances of social intercourse. You cannot help admiring (perhaps envying) their smoothness and self-as-surance, theirtact and congeniality. 
USING THE WORDS 

Can you pronounce the words? 
1.econviviale
2.eindefatigablee
3.eingenuouse
4. perspicaciouse
5.emagnanimouse6.,versatilee

1.estoicale
8.eintrepide
9.escintillatinge

10.eurbanee


Can you work with the words? 
1. conviviale
2.eindefatigablee
3.eingenuouse
4.eperspicaciouse
5.emagnanimouse
6.eversatilee
7.estoicale




The adjective is: urbane 


kan-VIV'-ee-al in'-da-FAT'仑g千balein-JEN'-y沉心Spur'-s1均－KAY'-shas
VUR'－sa-tal 

STO'-a-kal 
in-TREP'-id ing
SIN'－氐layt-ur-BAYN' a. 


franke
b.eunllinchinge
c.enoblee
d.ecapable in many directionse
e.etirelesse
f.efearlesseg.keen五血ded





345 

Do you understand the words? 111  
1.eConvivial people are unfriendly.e TRUE  FALSE  
2. Anyone who is indefatigable tires easily.e TRUE  FALSE  
3. An ingenuous person is artful ande TRUE  FALSE  
untrustworthy.e 
4.eA perspicacious person is hard to fool.e TRUE  FALSE  
5.eA magnanimous person is easilye TRUE  FALSE  
insulted.e 
6.eA versatile person does many thingse TRUE  FALSE  
well.  
7.eA stoical person always complains of  TRUE  FALSE  
his hard lot.  
8.eAn intrepid explorer is not easilye TRUE  FALSE  
frightened.  
9.eA scintillating speaker is interesting toe TRUE  FALSE  
listen to.  
10.eSomeone who is urbane is alwayse TRUE  FALSE  
making enemies.  

KEY: 1-F, 2-F, 3-F, 4-T, 5-F, 6-T, 7-F, 8-T, 9-T, 10-F 
Do you understand the words? (II) 
1. convivial一hostileeSAME OPPOSITE 
2.eindefatigable--enervatedeSAME OPPOSITE 
3.eingenuous―worldlyeSAME OPPOSITE 



4. perspicacious--obtuse 
5. magnanimous一petty 6. versatil1>-well-rounded 

7. stoical-unemotional 8.intrepid一timid
9. scintillating一banal 

SAME SAME SAME SAME SAME 
OPPOS订E OPPOSITB OPPOSITB OPPOSITB OPPOSITB OPPOSITB 

10. urbane---erude SAME OPPOSITB KEY: 1-O,2-0,3-0,4-0, 5-0,6-S, 7-S, 8-0, 9-0，10-0 

Can yciu recall the words? 
2. noble, forgiving 
3. capable in many fields 
4. keen-minded 
5. uncomplaining ・ 
6. friendly 
7. poised; polished 
8. courageous 
9. tireless 
10. simple and honest; frank 

L234561&90 
MVP 
U1 
KEY: 1-SCintillating,・ 2-magnanimous, 3-versatile, 4-perspi-cacious, 5-stoical, 6-convivial, ?-urbane, &:...intrepid, 

(End of Session 32) 





SESSION 33 

ORIGINS AND RELATED WORDS 

1.oeat, drink, and be merryo
The Latin verb vivo, to live, and the noun vita, life, are theosource of a number of important English words. 
Convivo is the Latin verb to live together; from this, in Latin, was formed the noun convivium (don't get impatient; we'll be back to English directly), which meant a feast or banquet; and 

r
from convivium we get ouoEnglish word convivial, an adjective that describes the血doof person who likes to attend feasts and banquets, enjoying (and supplying) the jovial good fellowshipcharacteristic of such gatherings: 

Using the suffix -ity can you write the noun form of the adjec-tive convivial?o(Can you pro-nounce it?) 

2.oliving it upo
Among many others, the following English words derive fromoLatin vivo, to live: 
1.ovivacious (vi-V AY'-s加s)-fulloof the joy of living; ani一omated; peppy-avivacio匹 personality.oNoun: vivacity (vi-VAS'-a-tee). You can, as you know, also add -ness to妞yoadjective to form a noun. Write the alternate noun lorm of vivacious: 
2.
vivid一possessingothe freshness of life; strong; sharp-aovivid imagination; a vivid color. Add -ness to form the noun: 

3.orevive (r今VW')一bringoback to life. In the 1960s, men'sofashions of thttwentioes were revived. Noun: revival (ra-VI'-val). 


4.ovivisection (viv'-a-SEK'-shan)--operating on a live animal.o


Sect-is from a Latin verb meaning to cut. Vivisection is the proc-ess of e叩erimentingeon live animals to discover causes and cures of disease. Antivivisectionists object to the procedure, though many of our most important medical discoveries were made through vivisection. 

5. Viviparous (vi-V正'-ar-as)一producingelive babies. Human beings and most other mammals are.viviparous. Viviparous is contrasted to oviparous (o-VIP'.r-as), producing young from eggs. Most fish, fowl, and other lower forms of life are oviparous. 
The 
combining root in both these adjectives is Latin pareo, to give birth (pareni comes from the same root). In oviparous, the first two syllables derive from Latin ovum, egg. 

Ovum, egg, is the source of oval and ovoid, egg-shaped; ovulate 
(O'-vya-layt'), to release an egg from the ovary: ovum (6-vam), the female germ cell which, when fertilized 
by a sperm, develops into an embryo, then into a / etus (FEB＇一tas),eand:6naUy, in about 280 days in the case of humans, is born as an infant. 
The adjective form of ovary is pvarian (o-V,AIR'-ee-an); of fetus, fetal (FEE'-tal). Can you write the noun form of the verb ovulate? 
Love, you may or may not be surprised to hear, also comes from ovum. 
No, not the kind of love you're thinking of. Latin ovum became oeuf in French, or with "the" preceding the noun (the. egg), l'oeuf, pronounced something like LOOF. Zero (picture it for a moment) is shaped like an egg (0), so if your score in tennis is fifteen, and your 
opponent's is zero, you shout triumphantly,
・ ・・ 
fifteen love! Let's go!" 
3. more about lifee
Latin vita, life, is the origin of: 


1. vital (VI'七l)-essentialeto life; of crucial importance―a vital matter; also full of life, strength, vigor, etc. Add the suffix -ity to form the noun: Add aeverb suffix to-construct the verb:e(meaning: to give Zif e to). Finally, write the noun derived fromethe verb you have constructed:e
2.
Revitalize (ree-Vl'-t今应）isoconstructed from the prefix re-,oagain, back, the root vita, and the verb suffix. Meaningl 










3.oThe prefix de-has a number of meanings, one of which is es-sentially negative, as in defrost, decompose, declassify, etc. Using this prefix, can you write a verb meaning to rob of life, to take life from? Now write the noun form of this verb: 
4.oVitamin-0ne of the many nutritional elements on which lifeois dependent. Good eyesight requires vitamin A (found, for ex-ample, in carrots) ; strong bones need vitamin D (found in sun-light and cod-liver oil); etc. 

Vitalize, revitalize, and devital枷areoused figuratively―for ex-ample, a program or plan is vitali左d,orevitalized, or devitalized, according to how it's handled. 

4.oFrench lifeo
Sometimes, instead of getting our English words directly fromo
,・ Latin, we work through one of the Latin-derived or Romance lan-guages. (As you will recall, the Romance languages--French, Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, and Romanian-are so called be-cause they were originally dialects of the old Roman tongue. Eng-lish, by the. way, is not a Romance language, but a Teutonic one. Our tongue is a development of a German dialect imposed on the natives of Britain by the Angles, Saxons, and Jutes of early Eng-lish history. Though we have taken over into English more than 50 per cent of the Latin vocabulary and almost 30 per cent of the classical Greek vocabulary as roots and prefixes, our basic Ian-guage is nevertheless German). The French, using the same Latin root vivo, to live, formed two expressive phrases much used in English. French pronunciation is, 
of course, tricky, and if you are not at least superficially ac-quainted with that language, your pronunciation may sound a.bit awkward to the sophisticated ear一butotry it anyway. These phrases are: 


1.ojoie de vivre--pronounced something like zhwahd＇
V邸V'（动isid皿ticaloin sound to the s of pleasure). 一 
Literally joy of living, this phrase describes an i.Qunense delight 
in b血g,.alive,oan・ effervescent keenness for all the daily activities that human beings indulge in. People who possess j啦devivreoare never moody, depressed, bored, or apathetic--on the -contrary, they are full of sparkle, eager to engage in all group activities, and, most important, always seem to be having a,good time, no matter what they are doing. Joie de vivre is precisely the opposite of ennui (this is also a word of French origin, but is easy to pro-nounce: AHN'-wee), which is a feeling of boredom, discontent, or weariness resulting sometimes from having a jaded, oversophis-
ticated, appetite, sometimes from just finding all of life tedious and unappetizing, and sometimes implying in addition physical lassi-tude and general inactivity. Young children and simple people rarely experience ennui―to them life is always exciting, 
always new. 
2.obon 
pronounced. something like BONG'-vee-VAHNG'.the -NG a muted nasal sound similar to the -ng in sing. 

A bon vivant is a person who lives luxuriously, especially in re-spect to rich food, good liquor, expensive theater parties, operas, and other accouterments of upper-class life. Bon vivant means, lit-erally, a good liver,・ actually, a high liver, one who lives -a Juxuri一oous life. W证noyou think of a bon vivant {usually, language being sexist, a male), you get the picture of someone atti比dinotop hat, "soup and fish" or tuxedo, raising his cane to call a taxi while a beautiful, evening.gowned and sophisticated-looking woman, spar-kling in diamonds and furs, waits at his side. They're going to・ a champagne and partridge supper at an outrageously expensive res-taurant, etc.-fill in your own details of the high life. 
The bon vivant is of course a convivial person一andoalso likely to be a gourmet (goor-MAY'), another word from French. 
5, food and how to enjoy it 

The gourmand (GOOR'-m:ind) enjoys food with a sensual pleasure. To gourmands the high spots of the day are the times for breakfast, lunch, dinner, and midnight supper; in short, they like 







to eat, but the eating must be good. The verb form, gormandize (GAWR'-man-diz'), however, has suffered a degeneration in meaning-it signifies to stuff oneself Uke a pig. 
Agour血indeis significantly different from a gourmet, who has also a keen interest in food and liquor, but is much more fastidi-ous, is more of a connoisseur, has a most discerning palate for delicate tastes, flavors, and di行erences;egoes in for rare delicacies (like hummingbirds'etongues and other such absurdities) ; and approaches山eewhole business from a scientific, as well as a sen-sual, viewpoint. Gourmet is always a complimentary term, gour-mand somewhat less so. 
The person who eats voraciously, with no discernment what-ever, but merely for the purpose of stuffing himself ("I know I haven't had enough to eat till I feel sick"), is called a glutton (GLUT'勺n)--obviouslyea highly derogatory term. The verb glut-Ionize is stronger than gormandize; the adjective gluttonous_ (GLUT＇一:i-nas)eis about the strongest epithet you can apply to someone whose voracious eating habits you find repulsive. Some-one who has a voracious, insatiable appetite for money, 
sex, pun-ishment, etc. is also called a glutton. 

REVI郅OF ETYMOLOGY 
PREFIX, ROOT, SUFFIX MEANING . ENGLISH WORDS 
1. vivoeto live 
2.e-ouseadjective suffix 
3.ere-again, back 
4.esectusecut 
5.eanti-against 
6.epareoe
egg 



1.eovumeto give birth, produce 
8. vitaelife 
9.e-izeeverb suffix 
10.e-ationenoun suffix added to verbs ending in -ize 





11.-de-negative prefix 
12.-bon-good 13.-ate-verb suffix 



USING THE WORDS 

Can you pronounce the words? (I) 

1.-conviviality-
2.-vivacious-
3.-vivacity-
4.-vivid-
5.-vividness-
6.-revive-

1. revival-
8.-vivisection-
9.-antivivisectionist-
10.-viviparou.r-
11.-oviparous-
12.-oval-13.-ovoid-


14.-ovary-
15.-ovarian-

16.-ovulate-
17.-ovulation-



Can you pronounce the words? 1111 
1.-vital-
2.-vitality-
3.-vitalize-
4.-vitalization-
5.-revitalize-
6.-revitalization-
7.-devitalize-8.devital比ation


k:in-viv'-ee-AL'-:i-tee 
vi-VA Y'-sh:is
vi-VAS'－:i-tee-VIV'-id-VIV'-id-n:is氏VIV'-

m入VIV'－alviv'一今SEK'-sh:in-
an'-tee (or ti)-viv'一:i-SEK'-sh:in-ist

vi-VIP'.r－邻-
o-VIP'-:ir-:is-
6'-v:il-

O'-voyd'-
6'-v:i-ree-
o-V AIR'-ee-:in-
6-vy:i-layt'-
6-vy今LAY'-sh:in-


VI'-tal 
vi-T AL'-a-tee
VI'一ta-I讫＇ vi'-t今la-ZAY'-shanree-VI勺夺lIZ'ree-v孔ta-la-ZAY'-shandee-VI勺a-I讫＇dee-v孔t今Ia-ZAY'-shan



353 



9.ojoie de vivreo
10.oenm,i 
11.obon vivanto
12.ogourmand 
13.ogourmeto
14. gormandizeo
15.ogluttonoI 6. gluttonouso


17. gluttonizeo
18.ovitamin 

Can you work with the words? (I) 
1.ooval, ovoido
2.orevitalizeo
3. gluttonouso
4.ovivaciouso
5. vivido
6.oviviparouso
7.ooviparouso



zhw吐d'-VEEV'oAHN'-wee BONG'vee-VAHNG' GOOR'－mand 
孚ior-MAY'
GAWR'-man-寸立＇ 
GLUT'勺no
GLUT-a-nas 
GLUT'－今n讫＇ 
VI'-tc1-min 
a.opeppy 
b.obearingliveyotng 
c. strong, sharpo
d. piggish; greedyo
e.oegg-shapedo
f.obearing young in eggs 
g.ogive new life too





KEY: 1-e,2-g,3-d,4-a, 5-e, 6-b, 7-f 
Can you work with the words? 1111 
1.oconvivialityo
2.ovivisectiono
3.oantivivisectionisto
4. ovulationo
5.ovitalityo
6. joie de vivre 
7.oennui 




a.orelease of the eggo
b.oa "high liver" 
c.oexperimentation on live ani-malso
d. one who is a connoisseur ofogood foodo
e.oeffervescence; joy of livingo
f.oone who enjoys foodo
g.oone who eats greedily; oneowho is greedy (as for punish-ment, etc.) 


8. bon vivant  h. boredom  
9. gourmand  i. congeniality  
10. gourmet  j. strength,vigor  
11. glutton  k. one who is against experimen- 
tation on live animals  


KEY: 1-i, 2-c, 3-k, 4-a, 5才，6-c,7-h, 8-b, 9-f, 10-d, 11-g 

1 . revive a. rob of life or strength 
2. vital b. nutritional element necessary for life 
3. vitalize c. important, crucial 
4. devitalize d. stuff oneself like a pig 
5. gluttonize e. breathe life into 
6. vitamin f. bring back to life 



Do you understand the words? (I)  
1. conviviality-asceticism2. vivacious-apathetic  SAME SAME  OPPOSITB OPPOSITE  
3. vivid-dull  SAME  OPPOSITE  
4. revive--kill  SAME  OPPOSITE  
5. revitalize--rejuvenate  SAME  OPPOSITE  
6. ennui一boredom  SAME  OPPOSITE  
7. bon vivant―“man about town"  SAME  OPPOSITE  
8. gormandize--starve  SAMB  OPPOSITE  
9. glutton―ascetic  SAME  OPPOSITE  
10. joie de vivre一boredom  SAME  OPPOSITE  

KEY: 1-O,2-0, 3-0, 4-0, 5-S,6-S,7-S,8-O，9-0，10-0 



Do you understand the words? 1111 
1.evivacity-livelinesseSAMB 
2.erevival-renewaleSAME 
3.evivisection-experimentation on corpseseSAME 
4.eovulation---egg-releasingeSAME 
5.
devitalize一reinvigorateeSAME 

6.evitality-fatigueeSAME 
7.egluttonous-greedyeSAME 
8.egourmand-asceticeSAME 
9.eovoid--egg-shapedeSAME 

OPPOSITE OPPOSITE OPPOSITE OPPOSITE OPPOSITE OPPOSITE OPPOSITE OPPOSITB OPPOSITB 

1.eHumans are v讥parous.e TRUB FALSB  
2.eCows are oviparous.e TRUE FALSE  
3.0四皿onetakes places in females onlye TRUE FALSE  
when they are married.e 
4.eAn antivivisectionist believes ine TRUE FALSE  
experimenting on live animals.e 
5.eVitamins are essential to good health.e TRUE FALSE  
6.eA bon vivant lives like a hennit.e TRUE FALSE  
7.eA gourmet stuffs himself with food.e TRUE FALSE  
8.eIt is normal for young children to bee TRUE FALSE  
overwhelmed with e血ui.e 
9.ePeople who are keenly alive possess joiee TRUE FALSE  



KEY: 1-S,2-S,3-O,4-S, 5-0, 6-0, 7-S,8-0，e9-S 
Can you recall the words? 1.e0.e
1.ebearing young by e邸se(adj.)e
2.ebearing live young("让）e2.eV.e


356 


KEY: 1-oviparous, 2-viviparous, 3-conviviality, 4-vivisection, 5-antivivisectionist, 6-ovulation, 7-d切italize,8才oieodeovivre, 9-glutton, 
10-bon vivant, 11-gourmet, 12-gour-mand, 13-gluttonize or gormandize, 14--ennui, 
lS-vivac-ity, vivaciousness, or vitality, 16-oval or ovoid, 17-revital-ize or revive, 18勺varian,o19-vitalo


3.ogood-fellowshipo
4.ooperating on live animalso
5.oone who is opposed to such anoactivityo
6.othe process of releasing an eggofrom the ovaryo
7.oto remove life or vigor fromo
8.ojoy of livingo
9.oone who eats like a pigo
10.oa "high liver"o
11.oone who is a connoisseur ofo



good foodo
12.oone who gets a sensualoenjoyment from good foodo
13.oto stuff oneself like a pig; tooeat greedilyo
14.oI?oredom; discontent; tediumo
15.oliveliness, pepo
16.oegg..-shapedo
17.oto bring renewed life or vigorotoo
18.oreferring to the ovary (adj.)o
19.oessential to life; crucial; ofoutmost importanceo


3.oC.o
5.o
6.o0o

7.oDo
8.oJ,o
9.oGo
10.oBo
11.oGo
12.oGo
13.oGooro14.o

15.oV.oor V.oor V.o16.o0oor Ro
17.oRoor 0o18.o0.o
19.oV.o

SESSION 34 



ORIGINS AND RELATED WORDS 
1.. no fatigue 

Indefatigable is derived form of fatigue-in-is a negative prefix, the suffix -abla e means able to be; hence, literally, indefat-igable means unable to be fatigued. The noun is切defatiegability (in'-da-fat'-Q-g今BIL'七tee).e
2.ehow simple can one be?e

Ingenuous is 
a complimentary term, though its synonyms吨ve,egullible, and credulous are faintly derogatory. To call people inge.uous implies that they are frank, open, art-less-in other words, not likely to try to put anything over on 
you, nor apt to hicle feelings or tboughts that more sophisticated persons would consider it wise, tactful, or expedient to conceal. 
Ingenuous should not be confused with ingenio四 (in-JEEN'-yas)一noteethe slight difference in spelling―which on the con-trary means shrewd, clever, inventive. 
The noun form of ingenuous is ingenuousness; of ingenious, in-genuity (in'-ja-N仅Y-a-teee)eor ingeniousness. 
To call people血ivee(nah-EEV') is to imply that they have not learned the ways of the world, and are therefore idealistic and trusting beyond the point of safety; such idealism and trust have probably come from ignorance or. inexperience. ・ The noun is 吨vetee(nab-eev-TAY'). 

Credulous (KREJ'-a七s)eimplies a willingness to believe almost anything, no matter how fantastic. Credulity (k.J改＇－la-tee),elike naivete, usually results, again; from ignorance or inexpe-rience, or perhaps from an inability to believe that human beings are capable of lying. 
Gullible (GUL'-a-bal) means如silyetricked, easily fooled, eas一



ily imposed on. It is a stronger word than credulous and is more derogatory. Gullibility (gul宅BIL'-a-tee)eresults more from stu.: pidity than from ignorance or inexperience. 
These four synonyms, ingenuous, naive, credulous, and gullible, are fairly close, but they contain areas of distinction worth remembering. Let's review them: 
1. ingenuous―frank, not given to concealment 
2.enaive―inexperienced, unsophisticated, trusting 
3. credulous-willing to believe; not suspicious or skeptical 

4. gullible-easily trickede




3.ebelief qnd disbelief 


Credulous comes from Latin credo, to believe, the same root found in credit (if people believe in your honesty, they will. extend credit to you; they will credit what you say). -Ous is an adjective suffix that usually signifies full of. So, strictly, credulous means full of believingness. 

Do not confuse credulous with credible. (KRED'-a-b.11). In the latter word we see combined the root credo, believe, with -ible, a suffix meaning can be. Something credible can be beiieved. 


Let's chart some differences: 

Credulous listeners一thoseewho fully believe what they hear A credible story-one that can be believede'-An incredulous (in-KREJ'今fas)eattitude―an attitude of skep-
ticism, of non-belief An incredible (in-KRED宅b.11)estory―one that cannot be believed Incredible characters-persons who are so unique that you can scarcely believe they exist. 
Nouns are formed as follows: 
credulous--credulity (kra-J心－片tee)eincredulous-incredulity (in-kr今JOO＇一la-tee)ecredible--credibility (kred'-a-BIL'-a-tee) incredible-incredibility (in-kred'-a-BIL'-a-tee) 
To check your understanding of these distinctions, try the next test. 


359 


Can you use these words correctly? 


Use credulous, credible, or correspouding negative or noun 
forms in the following sentences: 


.1. She listened -----1y to her bus-band's confession of his frequent infidelity, for she had always considered him a paragon of moral uprightness. 
2.oHe told bis audience anoandofantastic story of his narrow escapes.o
3.oHe'll believe you―he's veryo
4.M吐eo
your characters moreo

5.oWe listened dumb-struck, full ofoto the shocking details of corruption and vice.o
6.oHe has the mostogood luck.o
7.oTheoof it! How can suchothings happen?o
8.oNaive people accept with completeowhatever anyone tells them.o
9.o"Do you believe me?" "Sure-your story isoenough." 
10.oI'm not objecting to the totalo


of your story, but only to your thinking that I'm _____:o.enough to believe it! 
KEY: I-incredulously, 2-incredible, 3-<:redulous, 4--credible, 5-incredulity, 6-incredible, 7-incredibility, 8-<:redulity,o9-<:redible, 10-incredibility, credulouso
4.owhat people believe ino
Credo, to believe, is the origin of four other useful Englishowords. 


1. Credo (KR.EE＇一do)一personalebelief, code of ethics; the principles by which people guide their actions. 
2.eCreed-aeclose synonym of credo; in addition, a religiousebelief, such_ as Catholicism, Judaism, Protestantism, Hinduism, etc. 
3.eCredence (KREE'一如ns)一beli忒，eas in, "I place no ere-dence in his stories." or "Why should I give any credence to what you say?" 
4.eCredentials (m-DEN'-shals)一aedocument or documentseproving a person's right to a title or privilege (i.e., a right to be believed), as in, "The new ambassador presented his credentials to the State Department." 
5.eheads and tailse

We can hardly close our book on the words suggested by ingen-uous without looking at-tl1e other side of the coin. If ingenuous means frank, open, then disingenuous (dis-in-JEN'-y的心s)eshould mean not frank or open. But disingenuous people are far more 
than simply not ingenuous. They are crafty, cunning, dishonest, artful, insincere, untrustworthy―and they are all of these while making a pretense of being simple, frank, and aboveboard. You are thinking of a wolf in sheep's clothing? It's a good analogy. Similarly, a remark may be disingenuous, as may also a state-ment, an attitude, a confession, etc. Add -ness to form the noun derived from disingenuous: 

REVIEW OF ETYMOLOGY 
PREFIX, ROOT, SUFFIX MEANING ENGLISH WORD 

1. in-negative prefix 
2.e-nessenoun suffix 
3.ecredoeto believe 
4.e-ouseadjective suffix 
5.e-ibleecan be; able to be 
6.e-ityenoun suffix 
7.e-enceenoun suffix 
8.edis-negative prefix 







USING THE WORDS 


Can you pronounce the words? 
1.eindefatigabilitye
2.eingenuousnesse
zngenzouse

3.. i 
4.. imgePUltye
5.enaivee
6.enaivetee
7.ecredulouse
8.eincreduloUSe
9.egulliblee
10. gullibilitye
11.ecrediblee
12.eincrediblee
13.ecredulitye
14.eincredulitye
15.ecredibilitye
16.eincredibilitye
17.ecredoe
18.ecreede
19.ecredencee
20.ecredentialse
21.edisingenuous22.巫ingenuousnesse



Can you work with the words? (I) WORDS 
1. indefatigabilitye
2.eingenuousnesse


in勺抡fat'七萨－BIL＇七teein-JEN'-y氓心s-ness证JEEN'-y:isin'一片N氓＇:..:;i-teeenah-EBV' nah-eev-TA Y' KREJ',-13S in-KREJ'仑faseGUL'－3-be9l gul勺－BIL'心teeKRED'－今加1in-KRED'－今b:il压J0"0'-1千teein'士乓eJab'-1:1-teeekred＇一今BIL仁今teein-kred'-:i-BIL'－:i-tee KREE'-do KREED KREE'-d:ins 阮－DEN'-sh:ilzdi吐in-JEN＇一y仅心Sdi吐in-JEN勺叹沁s-n:is








:t disingenuousness c.epersonal code of ethicse
4.enaiveteed.efranknesse
5.ecredibilityee.ebelief, truste
6.eincredulityef.etirelessnesse
7.ecredenceeg.ebelievabilitye
8.ecredoeh.einexperience; unworldlinesse



KEY: 1-f, 2-d,3-a,4-h,5-g,6-b, 7-e, 8--c 

Can you work with the words? (II) 
1.. imgemouse
a.eeasily trickede
2.ecredulouseb.ereligious beliefe
3.egullibleec.einexperienced; unworldlye
4.eincredibleed.edocument proving privileges,eidentity,etc.e
5.ecreedee.eunbelievablee
6.ecredentialsef.eshrewdness; clevernesse
7.eingenuityeg.eclever; inventive; shrewde
8.enaiveeh.ewilling to believee

KEY: 1-g, 2-h, 3-a，4-e,5-b,6-d, 7-f,妇

Do you understand the words? 
1.eIs indefatigability a sign of physical andeYES NO emotional health?e
2.eIs ingenuousness a normal quality ofeYES NO young childhood?e
3.
Is切genuityea characteristic ofeYES NO inventors?e

4.eAre some adolescents naive?eYES NO 
5.eAre unintelligent people often gullible?eYES NO 
6.e
Is incredulity the mark of the agnostic?eYES NO 
7.eDoes an incredible story invite belief?eYES NO ・ 


363 



8.eDo people generally live by a credo? 邓S  NO  
9.eDoes our Constitution guarantee certaine YES  NO  
rights to Americans irrespective of theire 
creed?e 
10.eAre ingenious people sometlmese YES  NO  
社劝屯enuous?e 
11.eDo we generally give credence toe YES  NO  


Can you recall the words? 
1.einexperience;. unsophisticatione1.eN.e2.believing("让）e2.e
3.ereligious beliefe3.e4.ebelievablee4.e
5.egreat reservoir of energye5.e6.efranknesse6.e
7.ecrafty; dishoneste7.eDe
8.einventive; clevere8.e
9.eeasily trickede9.eG.e
10.eskepticale10. I 
11.eunbelievablee. 11. 
12.epersonal codee・e12.e

KEY: 1-naive, 2-creclulous, 3-creed, 4-creclible, 5 .. :.-indefat-igability, 6-ingenuousness, 7-disingenuous, 8-ingenious, 9-gullible, 10-incredulous, 11-incredible, 12-eredoe

(End of Session 34) 


SESSION 35 



ORIGINS AND RELATED WORDS 

1.ehow to.look 

The Latin root specto, to look, is the source of a host of com-mon English words: spectacle, spectator, inspect, retrospect (a looking back), prospect (a looking ahead), etc. In a variant spelling, spic-, the root is found in conspicuous (easily seen or looked at), perspicacious, and perspicuous. 
A perspicacious (pur'哥均－KAY'-shas)eperson is keen-minded, mentally sharp, astute. Per-
is a prefix meaning through; so the word etymologically means looking through (matters, etc! ) keenly, intelligently. The noun:. perspicacity {pur'-sp今KAS'一千etee). Write an alternate noun ending.. ine

Perspicacity is a synonym of acumen（今KYOO＇.m:in),emental keenness, sharpness, quickness; keen insight. The root is Latin acuo, to sharpen. 
2.esharpness 
From acuo, to sharpen, come such words as acute, sharp, sud-den, as acute pain, an acute attack of appendicitis, acute reason-ing, etc; and acupuncture (AK'-y砬punk'-cbar),ethe insertion of a (sharp) needle into the body for medical purposes. The noun form of acute, referring to the mind or thinking, is acuteness or acuity（今KY改注tee);ein other contexts, acuteness only. 
Acupuncture combines acuo, to sharpen, with punctus, point. When you punctuate a. sentence, you put various points (periods, com.mas, 
etc.) where needed; when lightning punctuates the storm, or when the silence is punctuated by the wailing of police 





sirens, again points, etymologically speaking, interrupt the atmos-
phere, the quiet, etc. 
If you are punct皿l,eyou're right on the point of time (noun: 
punct血lity); if you're punctilious (punk-兀L'心心s),eyou are 
exact, scrupulous, very careful to observe the proper points of be-
havior, procedure, etc. (noun: punctiliousness). And to puncture 
something, of course, is to make a hole in it with a sharp point一 
as to puncture someone's tire, or figuratively, illusions, fantasies, 
or ego. Pungent (PUN'-jant) comes from another form of the 
root punctus (pungo, to pierce sharply), so a pungent smell or 
taste is sharp, spicy, pricking the nose or taste buds, so to speak; 
and a pungent wit sharply pierces one's sense of humor. Can you 
write the noun forms of this adjective? 
or 
3.esome more lookinge
Perspicacious should not be confused with perspicuous (p企 
SPIK'-yoo..gs). Here is the important distinction: 
Perspicacious means smart, sharp, able to look through and un-
derstand quickly. This adjective applies to persons, their reason-
ing, minds, etc. 
Perspicuous is the obverse side of the coin―it means easily un-
derstood from one look, and applies to writing, style, books, and 
like things that have to be understood. Hence it is a synonym of 
clear, simple, lucid. H you write with perspicuous style, your Ian-
guage is clear, easy to understand. If you are perspicacious, you 
understand quickly, easily. 
The noun form of perspicuous is perspicui句(pur-spQ-KYOO＇一e
a-tee), or, of course, perspicuousness. 
A spectacle is something to look at; spectacles (eyeglasses) are the means by which you get a comfortable and accurate look at , the world. Anything spectacular is, etymologically, worth looking 
at. 
A spectator is one who looks at what's happening. 
To inspect is to look into something. 
Retrospect (RET'干哼ekt')eis a backward look一generallyethe 
word is preceded by the preposition in, for instance, "His life in 
retrospect seemed dreary and dnll," or''Most experiences seeme
_e




more enjoyable in retrospect than in actuality" (retro-, back-ward). 
Prospect (PROS'-pekt') is a forward look,・ prospective (p飞 SPEK'-tiv) is the adjective. What's the prospect for inflation, for world peace, for the domestic energy supply? Your prospective mother-in-law is the one you.can look forward to if you marry a certain person; similarly, your prospective bride, groom, child, job, vacation, etc. is the person, thing, or activity in the future that you look forward to. (The prefix is pro-, forward, ahead, before.) 

If you enjoy looking at yourself, figuratively speaking, then you like to examine your mental processes and emotional reactions, in the intense way characteristic of the introvert (see Chapter 3). Your mind's eye turns inward, and you spend a good deal of time analyzing yourself, your character, your personality, your actions. Hence, since you look inward, you are introspective (in'-tr今 SPEK'-tiv)-tbe prefix is intro-, inside, within. If you introspect (in'-trQ-SPEKT'), you look inward and examine your inner reac-tions. Too much introspection (in'-t心PEK'-sh如）orointrospec-tiveness may lead to unhappiness or to depressing thoughts or feelings of anxiety一fewopeople have the. courage to see them-selves as they really are. 
There are times when you have to look around most carefully; you must then be circumspect (SUR'.kQm-spekt')―:watchful, 
cautious, alert (circum-, around). The 
noun is circumspection (sur'-kem-SPEK'-sh叩）orocir-cumspectness. 


If something looks good or sensible, but actually is not, we call it specious (SPEE'-sbQs). A specious argument sounds plausible, but in reality is based on an error, a fallacy, or an untruth. The 






REVIEW OF ETY从OLOGY 
PREFIX, ROOT, SUFFIX 
MEANING ENGLISH WORD 

1.ospectooto look 
2.oper-through 
3.-acuo-to sharpen 
4.-punctus-point 
5.--ate-verb suffix 6.-al-adjective suffix 



367 

7.-pungo-to pierce sharply 
8.--ent-adjective suffix 

9.--ence, -ency-noun suffixes 
10.--ness-
noun suffix 
11.--ity-noun suffix 
12.-retro-backward 
13.-pro-forward, ahead, before 
14.-intro-inside, within 
15.--ion-noun suffix 
16.--ive-adjective suffix 
17.-circum-around 


USING THE WORDS 

Can you pronounce the words? Ill 

1. persplCQClO匹-
2.-perspicacity-
3.-acumen今KY<X>'-m;,n-, 4. acute今KYdoT'-

5.-acuity今KYdo'今tee-
6.-acupunctureAK'－y砬punk'-ch;,r-
7.-punctuatePUNK'-cb砬ayt'-
8.-punctilious-punk:-TIL'-ee心S-
9.-puncturePUNK'-ch忒-・-10. pungent-PUN'-j;,nt 

11.-pungence-PUN'-j;,ns 
12.-pungency-PUN'-j;,n-see 



Car:i you pronounce the words? (II) 
1. perspicuous .r-SPIK＇.y仅as-
2.-perspicuityp正'.Sp今KYOO＇七tee








3.eretrospecte
4.eprospecte
5.eprospectivee
6.eintrospectivee


1.eintrospecte
8. introspectione9-. circumspecte
10.ecircumspectione
11.especiouse

Can you work with the words? (II 
1. persp1cacrous 
2. acumene
3.eacupuncturee
4.epunctiliouse
5.epungente
6.eperspicuouse
7.eretrospecte
8.eprospecte
9. introspectivee


RET'-r今spekt'ePROS'-pekt' prn-SPEK';.tiv in'－廿SPEK'-tivein＇一扛于SPEKT'ein'－扛今SPEK'-sh:ineSUR'-k:im-spekt' sur'-k:im-SPEK'-sh叩 SPEE'-sh:is 

a.eextremely careful, exact, oreproper in proceduree
b. clear; easy to understande
c. a forward looke


d. looking inside, or exam血nge
or analyzing, oneselfee.keen-n血dede
f.esharp; spicy; piercinge
g.ecareful, watchful, wary, cau-tious; "looking around"e
h. sharpness of mind or think-ing 
i.ea backward look 


1.eacutee
2.eacuitye

understood quickly and eas-ilye



3. punctuate 
4. puncture 
5. pungenc.e,pungency 
6. perspicuity 
7. prospective 
8. introspective 
9. circumspection 
10. specious 


c. so血ding plausible, or look-ing right, but actually false or untrue 
d. in the future; describing that which, or one who, can be looked forward to 
e. care; watchfulness; caution 
f. sharp; sudden; keen-minded 
g. tending to examine and to think about one's motives, feelings, etc. 
h. interruptsharplyor suddenly 

i sharpness or spiciness of taste, smell, wit, etc. 
j. keeness of mind, thinking,or 
intellect 
KEY: 1-f, 2寸，3-h,4-a ,5-i, 6-b, 7-d,8-g,9--e, 10-
Do you understand the words? 

1.perspicaciou.ull-witted
2. acumen―stupidity 
3. acute-sharp4.acuity一perspicacity

5. punctilious--casual 
6. pungent-flat, dull 
7. perspicuous-clear 
8. retrospect―backward look 
9. prospect--expectation 
10. introspective--extroverted 
11. prqspective-in the past . 
12. circumspect-careless 
13. specious―-true 



SAMB SAME SAME SA血 SAME SAMB SAME SAME SAMB SAMB SAME SAME SAME OPPOSITE OPPOSITE OPPOSITE OPPOSITE OPPOSITE OPPOSITE OPPOSITE OPPOSITE OPPOSITE OPPOSITE OPPOSITE OPPOSITE OPPOSITE 


KEY: 1-O,2-0, 3-S,4-S, 5-O,6-0, 7-S,8-S, 9-S,10-0, 11-O,12-0, 13-0 


Can you recall the words? Ill 
1. plausible, but false or incorrect 1. 
2. spiciness, sharpness; piercing 2. P quality or P 
3. clear; easily understood 3. P. 
4. sharpness of mind or of 4. intelligence 
5. care and caution; wariness or 
6. piercing of th. skin with 6. needles for medical purposes 
7. tending to examine one's 7. .o..es, etc.'. loooking inward (adj.) 
8. exact in the observance of 8. P. proper procedure 
9. to pierce and make a small 9. P. hole in 
10. a backward look or view 10. R 

KEY: 1-specious, 2-pungence or pungency, 3-perspicuous, 牛acumen or acuteness or acuity, 5-circwnspection or circumspectness, 6-acupuncture, ?-introspective, 8-punc-
tilious, 9-puncture, 10-retrospect 
Can you recall the words? 1111 
1. keenness of mind 1. P. or P. 
2. sharp; sudden; keen-minded 2. 
3. to interrupt suddenly 3.・ P. 

4. spicy; piercing in taste, smell, 4. P. wit, etc. 
5. clarity; clearness of style or 5. P. language . or P. 




6.okeen-minded; perceptiveo
7.oa look forwardo
8.oact or process of lookingoinwardo
9.ocarefully looking around;ocautious; waryo
10.oanticipated; .'to be"; lookedoforward to (adj.)o

6.oP.o8.o9. 

10.oP.o
KEY: 1-perspicacity or perspicaciousness, 2-acute, 3-punctuate, 
4-pungent, 5-perspicuity or perspicuousness, 6-perspi-
cacious, 7-prospect, 8-introspection, 9-circumspect, 

(End of Se过on35)o

SESSION 36 
ORIGINS AND R曰ATEDoWORDS 


1.othe great and the smallo
You are familiar with Latin animus, mind. Anim匹 andoa re-lated root, anima, life principle, soul, spirit (in a sense, these meanings are all very similar), are the source of such words as an-加al,oanimate and inanimate, animated, and animation: knowing the meaning of the roots, you have a better understanding of any word built on them. 
Magnanimo匹 contains,oin addition to animus, mind, the root magnus, large, great, which you recall. from m哩记loquent.oM呤 nanimo匹 peopleohave such great, noble minds or souls that they are beyond seeking petty revenge. 

Theonounoism鸣叩冗切认y(ma旷－n今NIM心＇tee).o


On the other hand, people who have tiny, tiny minds or souls are pusillanimo四 (py.'-sa-LAN'勺－mes)一Latinp血llus,otiny. Hence,.血yoare contemptibly petty and mean. The noun is p血llan加切(poy的＇－＄如NIM＇今tee).o

Other words built on anim匹， mind:o
1.ounanimo匹 (y砬NAN'令血s)--ofoone mind. If the Su-preme Court hands down a unanimous opinion, all the judges are ofone mind (Latin un匹， one).oThe noun is unanim切(y仅'-na-NIM＇一今tee).
2.
equanimi句（ee＇－kwg..NIM＇今teeoor ek'-wa-NIM屯ee)一 etymologically, "equal (or balanced) mind." Hence, evenness or calm,ness of血d;composure．丑youopreserve your equanimity under trying circumstances, you keep your temper, you do not get confused, you remain calm (Latin aequ匹， equal).o

3.oanimus (AN＇今叩s)一hostility,oill will, malevolence. Ety-mologically, a汕血sois simply mind, but has degenerated, as words often do, to mean unfriendly mind. The word is most often used in a pattern like, "I bear you no anim匹， evenothough you have tried to destroy me." (Such a s巨tementshows real magnanimi切）
4.
animosi句（an＇.MOS＇今tee)-il1owill, hostility. An exactosynonym of a汕皿s,oand a more common word. It is used in pat-terns like, "You feel a good deal of animosi仅don'otoyou?", "There is real animo出yobetween Bill and Ernie," "H you bear me noanima出y,owhy do you treat me so badly?'' 





2.oturningo
Versatile comes from verto, vei
皿s,oto turn一versatileopeopleocan tum their hand to many things successfully. The noun 
is ver-satili句(wr'-sa-TIL＇仑tee).o
3.oZeno and the front porcho


Centuries ago, in ancient Greece, the philosopher Zeno lecturedoon a topic that still piques the human m血，toowit: "How to Live a Happy Life." Zeno would stand on a porch (the Greek word for which is stoa) and hold forth somewhat as・follows: people should free themselves from intense emotion, be unmoved by both joy 









373 
and sorrow, and submit without complaint to unavoidable neces-sity. 
Today, psychologists suggest pretty much the exact opposite--let your emotions flow freely, express your love or animosity, don't bottle up your feelings. But in the fourth century B.c., when Zeno was expounding his credo, his philosophy of control of the passions fell on receptive ears. His followers were called Stoics, after the stoa, or porch, from w出chothe master lectured. 
If we call people stoical, we mean that they bear their pain or sorrow without complaint, they meet adversity with unflinching fortitude. This sounds very noble, you w讥admit―actually,oac-cording to modem psychological belief, it is healthier not to be so stoical. Stoicism (STO'仑siz-:im)omay be an admirable virtue (mainly because we do not then have to listen to the stoic's trou-bles), but it can be overdone. 

4.ofear and tremblingo
Intrepid is from Latin trepido, to tremble. Intrepid people ex-hibit courage and fearlessness (and not a single tremble!) when confronted by dangers from which you and I would run lice the 
cowards we are. (You recognize the negative prefix in-.) The noun: intrepidity・ (in'－氐PID'七tee),or, of course,证olrepidness. Trepido is the source also of trepidation (trep'-a-DAY'-sban) -great fear, trembling, or alarm.o


5.oquick flasho
Scintilla, in Latin, is a quick, bright spark; in English the wordo
scintilla (sin-TIL勺）mayoalso mean a spark, but more commonly 

refers to a very small particle (which, in a sense, a spark is), as 
in, "There was not a scintilla of evidence against him." 
In the verb scintillate (SIN＇一氐Iayt'),othe idea of the spark 
remains; someone who scintillates sparkles with charm and wit, 
flashes brightly with humor; The noun is scintillation (sin'一tQ
LAY'-sh叩）．






6.ecity and countrye

People who live in the big city go 
to theaters, attend the opera,evisit .useutns and picture galleries, browse in bookstores, and shop at Rob'inson's, Bloo呻1gdale's,eMarshall Field, or other large department stores. 
These activities fill them with culture and sophistication. 
Also, they crowd into jammed subway trains or・ buses, squeeze into packed elevators, cross the street in competition with high-powered motorcars, patiently stand in line outside of movie houses, and then wait again in the lobby for seats to be vacated. 
Also, they have the.privilege of spending two hours a day.going to and coming from work. 

As a result, city-dwellers are refined, polished, courteous一扛SOethe etymology of urbane (from Latin urbs, city) tells us. (And you must be absurdly credulous, if not downright gulhole, to be-廿eveeit.) The noun is urbanity (ur-BAN'-::i-tee). 

So urbane people are 
gracious, affable, cultivated, suave, tactful 一addeany similar adjectives you can think of. 
Urban (UR凇n)eas an adjec廿veesimply refers to・ cities-urban affairs, urban areas, urban populations, urban life, urban develop-
ment, etc. 

Consider some prefixes: sub-, near; inter-, between; intra-; in-side, within; ex-, out. Acid each prefix to the root urbs, using the adjective suffix -an: sub : near the city 


between cities : within a city e out of the city 
The suburbs residential sections, or small communities, close to a large cityare ; Larchmont is a suburb of New York City, Whittier a suburb of Los Angeles. Suburbia (s今BUR.'-bee-a)emay designate suburbs as a group; suburban residents, or suburbanites (s今BUR.'-b今nits'),eas a 







group; or the typical manners, modes of living, customs, etc. of suburban residents. An interurban bus travels between cities, an intraurban bus within a single city. 
n
Aeexurb (EKS'-urb) lies well beyond, way outside, a large city, and generally refers to a region inhabited by well-to-do families. Exurb has derived forms corresponding to those of sub-urb. Can you construct them? 
Plural noun: Adjective: Resident: As a group; manners, customs, etc.: 



Urbs is the city; Latin rus, ruris is the country, i.e., farmland, fields, etc. So rural (R心R'-al)erefers to country or farm regions, agriculture, etc.-awealthy rural area. 
Rustic (RUS'-tik) adjective 
may describe furniture or dwellings made of roughas hewan n wood, or furnishings suitable to a farmhouse; or, when applied to a person, is an antonym of urbane -unsophisticated, boorish, lacking in劝cialegraces, uncultured.eNoun: rusticity (rus-TIS'-:i-tee). Rustic is also a noun designatingea person with such characteristics, as in, "He was considered a心ticeby his classmates, ・ all of whom 
came from cultured andewealthy backgrounds."eUrbane and rustic, when applied to people, are emotionally charged words. Urbane is complimentary, rustic derogatory.* To rusticate (RUS'－氐kayt')eis to spend time in the country, away from the turmoil and tensions of big-city life. Can you con-struct the noun? 
*eIncidentally, a word used with a derogatory connotation (bitch, piggish, gl11tton, idiot, etc.) is called a pejorative (pe-JAWR'一千tiv).ePejorative isealso an adjective, as in,''She spoke in pejorative terms about her岱hus-band." The derivation is Latin pejor, worse.e





REVIEW OF ETY从OLOGY

PREFIX, ROOT, SUFFIX MEANING ENGLISH WORD 
1.eanimuse.mind 
2.eanimaesoul, spirit, life principle 
3.emagnuselarge, great 
4.epusil/usetiny 
5.eunuse
one 
6.eaequus (equ-)eequal 
7.everto, versuseto tum 
8.estoaeporch 
9.ein-negative prefix 
10.etrepidoeto tremble 
11.escintillaea spark 
12.eurbsecity 
13.esub-near, close to, under 
14.einter-between 
15.eintra-within, inside 
16.eex-out 
17.erus, rurisecountry, farmlands 
18.e-ateeverb suffix 
19.e-ionenoun suffix aded to -ate verbse




USING THE WORDS 

Can you pronounce the words? Ill 
1.emagnanimity
ma忙na-NTM'-a-teee
2.epusillanimouse
3.epusillanimitye
4.eunanimousy叩－NAN'今mas
5.-unanimity 
6. equanimity-









7. animus 
8. animosity 
9. versatility-
10.-stoic-
11.-stoicism 

Can you pronounce the words? (II) 
1. intrepidity 
2. trepidation 
3. scintilla-
4.-scintillate-
5.-scintillation-
6. urbanity-
7.-suburbia-
8.-interurban-
9.-intraurban-
10.-exurbs-

ll.-exurban-
12. exurbanite-
13. exurbia 


Can you pronounce the words? 11111 

Can you work with the words? (I) 
1 . magnanimity 

2.-pusillanimity-y砬na-N应＇七teeeek'(or ek')-wa-NIM宅tee-AN'，-mas an仁a-MOS'-a-tee-vur-s今TIL'－a-tee-ST6'-ik STO'-a-siz-am 
in'-tra-PID'－今tee-trep'-a-DA Y'-shan sin-TIL'-a SIN＇一ta-layt'-sin'-ta-LA Y'-shan ur-BAN'－今tee-sa-BUI_l'-bee-a in'-tar-UR'-ban in'-tr今UR'-ban-EKS'-urbz 
eks-UR'-ban ek-s-UR'-ban-It' eks-UR'-bee-a 

a.-
ferent things well, or to func-




3. unanimity 
4. equanimity 
5. animosity 
6. versatility 
7. stoicism 
8. intrepidity 
9. trepidation 
10. scintillation 


tion successfully in many areas 

c. fearlessness; great courage 
d. unemotionality; bearing of pain, etc. without complaint 
e. big-heartedness; generosity; quality of forgiving easily 
f. a sparkling with wit or clever-ness 
g. fear and trembling; alarm 
b. complete agreement,all being of one mind 
i. petty-mindedness 
j. anger, hostility, resentment, hatred 



KEY: 1-e,2-i, 3-h, 4-a, 5-j, 6-b, 7-d,8女9-g, 10-f 


Can you work with the words? !Ill 
1. urbanity 
2. suburbia 
3. exurbia 
4. animus 
5. interurban 
6. intraurban 
7. rural 
8. rustic 




a. referring to the countryside 
b. word with negative or derog-atory connotation; describing such a word or words 
c. to spend time in the e-Ountry 
d. residential areas near big cit-ies; customs, etc. of the in-habitants of such areas 
e. residential areas far from big cities; customs, etc. of the in-habitants of such areas 
f. between cities 
g. roughhewn, farmlike; unso-phisticated, uncultured 
h. sophistication, courtesy,・ pol-ish, etc. 



9.erusticateei.eanger, hatred, hostilitye
10.epejorativee
j.ewithin one citye



(End of Session 36) 


SESSION 37 
READY FOR A STRONG REVI邸？ 

Drill, drill, drill! This is the important secret of learning words thoroughly. Review, review, review! This is the secret of remembering, as-sintllating, digesting, and keeping as permanent acquisitions 
all thee
・ ・ 
new words you have learned. So pitch in with enthusiasm 
to the rest of this chapter, made up of a series of valuable tests on all the chapter words. Ready? 

Can you work with the words? Ill 
1.eretrospecte
a.ecomplete agreemente
2.eacumeneb.epettinesse
3.emagnanimityec.emalevolencee
4.epusillanimityed.ebackward looke
5.ew诅nhnityee.ecalmnesse
6.
equan血i勺ef.eability in many fieldse

7.eanimosityeg.emental keennesse




Can you work with the words? 1111 
1. sto i c i 
. stoicism 
2. intrepidity 
3. trepidation 
4. scintillation 
5. urbanity 
6. introspection . 
7. circumspection 
8. speciousness 

a. fearlessness 
b. ・sparkle 
c. inward look 

cl. uncomplaining attitude to pain or trouble 
e. falsity 
f. polish, cultivation 
g. care, cautiousness 
h. fear 

KEY: 1-d,2-a, 3-h, 4-b, 5-f, 6七7-g,8士
Can you work with the words? (1111 
1. exurbs 
2. pusillanimous 

3 . unarumous 

4. animus 
5. rustic 6.・ urban 


7. introspective 
8. circumspect 
9. specious 


a. of one mind b; ill will 
.-pertaining to the city 
d. petty 
e. self-analytical 
f. regions far from the city 
g. cautious 
h. false, though plausible 
i. countrified 


KEY: 1-f, 2-d,3-a,4-b, 5-i, 6-c,7-e,8-g,9-h 

Can you work with the words? (IV) 
1. perspicacity 
2. perspicuity 
3. stoic 
4. scintilla 

a. dearness 
b. to be witty 
c. spend time in the country 
d. one -who controls his emo-tions 




5.oscinti1lateoe.oto look inwardo

6.oruralof.oa very small amounto
7.orusticateog.okeen intelligenceo
8.ointrospectoh.oclear, understandableo
9.operspicuousoi.okeen-mindedo
10.operspicaciousoj.opertaining to the country.o
KEY: 1-g,2-a,3-d,4-f,-5-b,6-j, 7七 8--e,9-h,o10-i  
Do you understand the words? (I)  
1.oDoes life often seem pleasanter ino YES  NO  
retrospect?o 
2.oAre people of acuity gullible?o YES  NO  
3.oIs perspicacity a common characteristic?o YES  NO  
4.oIs a person of acumen likely to be naive?o YES  NO  
5.oIs a perspicuous style of writing easy too YES  NO  
read?o 
6.oShould all writers aim at perspicuity?o YES  NO  
7.oIs magnanimity a characteristic ofo YES  NO  
small-minded people?o 
8.oDoes a person of pusillanimous mindo YES  NO  
often think of petty revenge?  
9.oIs a unanimous opinion one in which allo YES  NO  
concur?  

KEY: 1-yes, 2-no, 3-no, 4-no, 5-yes, 6-yes, 7-no, 8-yes, 9-yes 
Do.you understand the words? 1111 
1.Is 
it easy to preserve one's equanimi句ounder trying circumstances?o

2.oDo we bear animus tow江douroenemies?o


3.oDo we usually feel great animosityotoward our friends?o
4.oDo we admire versatili戍


YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  








5. Does a stoic usually complain? 
YES NO 
6.oIs stoicism a mark of an uninhibited YES NO personality?o
7. Do cowards show intrepidity in the faceoYES NO of danger? 
8. Do cowards often feel a certain amount YES NO of trepidation? 
9.oIs a scintilla of evidence a greatoYES NO amount? 
10.oDo dull people scintillate?oYES NO 
11. Is urbanity a characteristic of boorish YES NO people?o


KEY: 1-no, 2-yes, 3-no, 4-yes, 5-no, 6-no, 7-no, 8-yes, 9-no, 10-no, 11-noo
Do you understand the words? 11111 
1. Is New York City a rural community? YES NO 
2.oIs a village an urban community?oYES NO 
3.oDo you rusticate in the city?. YES NO 
4.oAre extroverts very introspective?oYES NO 
5. Does an introvert spend a good deal of YES NO time in introspection?o
6.oIn dangerous circumstances, is it wise tooYES NO be circumspect? 
7. Do specious arguments often sound YES NO convincing? 

KEY: 1-no, 2-no, 3-no, 4-no, 5-yes, 6-yes, 7-yes 
Do you understand the words? IIVI 
1.oretrospect―prospectoSAME OPPOSITE 
2. acute-perspicaciousoSAME OPPOSITE 
3.
acumen一stupidityoSAME OPPOSITE 

4.operspicuous-confusedoSAME OPPOSITE 


5.emagnanimous--noble SA血  OPPOSITE  
6.epusillanimous-pettye SAME  OPPOSITE  
7.eunanimous-dividede SAME  OPPOSITE  
8.eequanitnity:―nervousnesse SAME  OPPOSITE  
9.eanimosity―hostilitye SAME  OPPOSITE  
10.eanimus-friendlinesse SAME  OPPOSITE  
11.eversatility-monomaniae SAME  OPPOSITE  
12.estoicism--cowardicee SAME  OPPOSITE  
13.eintrepidity一feare SAME  OPPOSITE  
14.etrepidation--couragee15.escintilla一slfghteamount  SAME SAME  OPPOSITE OPPOSITE  
16.eurbanity一refinemente SAME  -OPPOSITE  
17.erustic--crudee SAME  OPPOSITE  
18.erural―urbane SAME  OPPOSITE  
19.eintrospective-self-analytice SAME  OPPOSITE  
20.ecircumspect-carelesse SAME  OPPOSITE  
21.especious--truee SAME  OPPOSITB  


KEY: 1-O，2-S, 3-O,4-0, 5-S,6-S, 7-0, 8-0, 9-S,10-0, 11-O,12-O,13-O,14-0, 15-S,16-S, 17-S,18-0，19-S,e20-0, 21-0e
Can you recall the words? Ill 
1.eability in many fieldse.e. 1. V.e
2.epertaining to the city (adj.)e2. U.e
3. to spend time in the countrye3.eRe
4.emerest spark; small amounte4. 
5.ecourage ・e5.e

KEY: I-versatility, 2-urb血，e3-rusticate,e4-scintilla, 5-in-trepidity 
Can you recall the words? (II) 

1.eunflinching fortitudee1. 
2.ecountrified; unpolishede384 
3.epertaining to the countrysidee3. Re(adj.)e
4.ea looking back to the past 4. Re
5. nobleness of mind or spirit 5. Me





KEY: 1-stoicism, 2-rustic, 3-rural, 4-retrospect, .-magnanimity 
Can you recall the words? (Ill) 
1. keen-mindedness 1.eAe
2. clear, lucid 2. P. 
3.epetty, mean ．． 3.ePe
4. all of one mind or opinion 4.eU. 
5.eill wille5. Aeor 

KEY: I-acuity, 2-perspicuous, 3-pusillanimous, 4-unanimous, 5-ani
-antmus or animositye
Can you recall the words? (IV) 
1-4.keenness of minde1.eP.eor P.e2.e
3. A 
4. Ae
5.eclearness of style or languagee5. P. 
6.eone who keeps his emotions, 6. during times of trouble,ehiddene
7. sophistication, courtesy,e7.eU. refinemente

KEY: I-perspicacity or perspicaciousness, 2-acumen, 3-acuity, 4-acuteness (2-4in any order), 5-perspicuity, 6-stoic,e7-urbanitye


Can you recall the words? (VI 
1.apettiness of charactera1.aPa
2. noun form of口ranimousa2.aU.a
3.amental calmnes斗 balancea3.a
4.afear and tremblinga. 4.aT.a
5. to sparkle with wit and humora5.aS.a

KEY: 1-pusillanimity, 2-unanimity, 3-equanimity, 4-氐p-idation, 5-scintillate 
Can you recall the words?(VI) 
1. a looking inward; an examininga. 1.aI.aof one's mental processes or emotional reactions 
2.acautious ・a2. 
3.aseemingly true, actually falsea3. 
4.ato think of one's mentala4.aIaprocessesa
5.acare, watchfulnessa5. 

_ KEY: l-'introspective, 2-circumspect, 3-specious, 4-introspect, 5-circumspectiona
THREE FURTHER TESTS 
I.amatchinga
WORD 
`ANING 

1.aconvivialaa.afranka

2.aindefatigableab.anoble, forgivinga
3.aingenuousac.aunflinching; unemotionala




4.aperspicaciousad.acourteous; polished; suavea
5. magnanimousae. companionable, gregariousa
6.aversatileaf.awittya
7.astoicalag.acapable in many directionsa
8.aintrepidah.abravea
9. scintillatingai.akeen-mindeda
10.aurbaneaj.atirelessa

KEY: 1-e,2-j, 3姐，牛i,a5-b, 6-g, 7--<:, 8-h, 9-f, 10-d 

II.asame or opposite?a 
1.avivacious-sluggisha SAME  OPPOSITE  
2.avital--crucial SAM卫a OPPOSITE  
3.aennui-boredoma -sAMEa OPPOSITE  
4.bon vivant一gourmanda SAMEa OPPOSITE  
5.agourmet-ascetica SAMEa OPPOSITE  
6.aingenuous--craftya SAMBa .  OPPOSITE  
7.anaive--sophisticateda SAMB  OPPOSITE  
8.acredulous-skepticala SAME  OPPOSITE  
9. disingenuous-insincerea SAME  OPPOSITE  
10.acredo-beliefa SAME  OPPOSITE  

KEY: 1-O,2.S,3-S,4-S,5-0,6-0, 7-O，8-O, 9-S,10-S 

Ill. changing parts of speech 
Change these adjectives to nouns,iot endlng in -ness. 1.aindefatigable 1. 2.aperspicacious 2. 
3.astoical  3.  
4.aurbanea .  4.  
5.anaive  5.  
・a 

6.aincredulousa6.a7.aincredible.a7.a8.aperspicuous ・a8.a


387 

KEY: 1-indefatigability, 2-perspicacity, 3-stoicism, 4-urbanity, 5-n1;1ivete, 6-incredulity, 7-incredibility, 8-perspicuity,e9-magnanimity, IO-pusillanimitye

CHAPTER REVIEW 
A.eDo you recognize the words?e
1.eTireless:e
(a)econvivial, (b) indefatigable, (c) versatilee
2.eFrank, unsophisticated:e
(a)eingenuous, (b) ingenious, (c) intrepide
3.eUnflinching; uncomplaining:e

(a)e
perspicacious, (b) urbane, (c) stoicale

(a)e
pusillanimous, (b) unanimous, (c) magnanimouse


generous:e
5.eBetween cities:e
(a)e
interurban, (b) intraurban, (c) exurbane6, Giving birth to live young: 

(a)e
oviparous, (b) ovulation, (c) viviparouse




7.eTedium, boredom:e
(a)eennui, (b) joie de vivre, (c) vitalitye
8.eConnoisseur of choice food:e
(a)egourmet, (b) gourmand, (c) gluttone
9.e
Inexperienced in the ways of the world:e(a).credulous, (b) naive, (c) crediblee

10.e
Easily tricked:e


(a)egullible, (b) incredulous, (c) ingeniouse
11.eBackward look:e
(a)eprospect, (b) retrospect, (c) introspectione
12.eClearness:e
(a)eperspicacity, (b) perspicuity, (c) intrepiditye
13.eResentment:e
(a)eanimosity, (b) stoicism, (c) urbanitye



14.,Countrified:,
(a),rustic,(b) specious, (c) circumspect,
KEY: 1-b, 2-a, 3-c， 4--c, 5-a， 6--c, 7-a, 8-a,9-b, 10-a, 11-b, 
12-b, 13-a,14-a,

KEY: 1-to live, 2-cut, 3-to give birth, produce,牛gg,5-life, 6-good, 7-to believe, 8-to look, 9-tosharpen, 10-point,11一to,pierce sharply, 12-mind, 13-tiny, 14-big, great,,large, 15-one, 16--equal, 17-to tum, 18-porch, 19-to,tremble, 20-spark, 21-city, 22-country, countryside,
B.,Can you recognize roots?,
ROOT 
1.,vivo,
2.,sectus,
3.,pareo,
4.,ovum,
5.,vita,
6.,bon,

1.,credo,
8.,specto,
9.,acuo,
10.,punctus,
11.,pungo,
12.,animus,
13.,pusillus,
14.,magnus,
15.,unus,
16.,aequus (equ-),
17.,verto, versus,
18.,stoa,
19.,trepido,
20.,scintilla,
21.,urbs,
22.,rus, runs,

EXAMPLE 
MEANING vivacious
・.. ..
vivisection
．．
v1v1parous oviparous vital bon vivant credible spectator acupuncture punctuate pungent animosity pusillanimous magnanimous unanimous equanimity versatile 
stoical trepidation 
scintilla比,
urban rural, rustic 
389 


TEASER QUESTIONS FOR THE AMATEUR ETY从OLOGIST 
1.oRecalling the root vi叽 toolive, can you think of the verbothat means to live on? Can you write the noun form? . 
2.oHow would you explain a・ vivarium?o
3.oRecalling the meanings of Latin vita, what would you under-stand if someone asked you for yow: vita before you appeared for 
4.oUnus is Latin for one. Can you use this root to constructowords meaning: 


(a)oanimal with one horn:o
(b)oof one form:o
(c)oto make・ one:o
(d)ooneness:o
(e)oone-wheeled vehicle:o


5.oAnnus is Latin for year; verto, versus, as you know, meansoto turn. Can you, then, explain the word anniversary in terms of its roots? 
6.oHow about universe and university in terms of their rootso(unus, one; verto, versus, to tum)? 


(a) universe: 
(b)u正versity:o
ings: 






8. Use intra-, within, to form words with the following mean-ings (all adjectives): 
(a) 
within one state: 

(b) 
within one nation: 

(c) 
within one's own person or mind: 

(d) 
within the muscles: 



(Answers in Chapter 18) 

WORDS INFLUENCE YO,lJR THINKING 
By now, you have thoroughly explored hundreds upon hun-dreds of valuable words and scores upon scores of important Greek and Latin roots. 
As you went along you stopped at frequent intervals to say aloud, think about, work with, and recall the words you were add-ing to your vocabulary. 
By now, therefore, the words you have been learning are proba-bly old friends of yours; they have started to influence your think-ing, have perhaps begun to appear in your conversation, and have certainly become conspicuous in your reading. In short, they have been effective in making changes in your intellectual climate. 
Let us pause now for another checkup of the success of your study. In the next chapter, you will find a second Comprehensive Test. Take the test cold if you feel that ail the material is at your fingertips; or .pend a little time reviewing Chapters 9, 10; 11, and 12 if you believe such review is necessary. 
(End of Session 37) 






13 
HOW TO CHECK YOUR PROGRESS 
Comprehensive Test II 
SESSION 38 
I-etymology 
ROOT MEANING EXAMPLE 
1. 
scribo, scriptus proscribe 

2. 
aequus (equ-) equivocal 

3. 
malus malign 

4. 
dico, dictus malediction 

5. 
volo malevolent 

6. 
facio malefactor 

7. 
bonus, bene benevolent 

8. 
fides infidelity 

9. 
dono condone 

10. 
nox, noctis equmox 

11. 
equus equestrian 

12. 
libra equilibrium 

13. 
taceo taciturn 

14. loquor 
15. solus 
16. venter, ventris 
17. magnus 
18. verbum 
19. volvo, volutzzs 
20. animus 
21. dorsum 
22. vox, vocis 
23. fero 
24. ambulo 
25. somnus 


II一more etymolo gy 
ROOT 

1. phanein 
2. vir 
3. pater, patris 
4. onyma 
5. homos 

6. phone 

1. archein 
8. mater,,natris 
9. c:aedo (-cide) 
10. homo 
11. uxor 
12. maritus 
13. pyros 
14. theos 
15. vivo 
16. credo 17; pungo 

18. unus 
19. trepido 
20. scintilla 
21. urbs 
22. rus, ruris 

MEANING 


loquacious soliloquy ventral magniloquence verbatim voluble pusillanimous endorse vocal vociferous somnambulist somnolent 
EXAMPLE sycophant virago patricide synonym -homonym homophone matriarch matron suicide homicide uxonous mariticide pyromania atheist viviparous credulous pungency unanimous intrepid scintillate urbanity rural, rustic 





393 

23.gna志a
prognosis. 
24.apanapantheism
．．

25.om志a
omniscient 



Ill一sameaor opposite? 
1.adisparage-praise・a
2. proscribe-prohibita
3.aplacate-irritatea4.taciturn一吨ativea


5. cogent―brilliant 
6. atheistic--religiousa
7.aconvivial-unfriendlya
―

8. ingenuousanaive 
9. perspicacious-keen-mindeda

―
10.aintrepidafearful 
11.malign一praisea
12.ainarticulate-verbala
13.averbose-laconica
14.atyro-virtuosoa
15.amegalomania一modestya
16.asatyriasis-nymphomaniaa
17.aclaustrophobia一agoraphobiaa18.indefatigability主elessnessa

―
19.acredulousaskeptical 
20.aanimosity-hostilitya

IV一matchinga
1.ais lewd and lustfula
2. caters to the richa
3. is an accomplishedamusiciana
4.asneers at traditionsa

so 

so 
sss ooo so 

s 
oooo 
ooo ooooo 
ss oo 
a.achauvinista
b.asycophanta
c. dilettantea
d.aiconoclasta



5.ais the mother-ruler ohafamily tribe, or nationa
6.abas an irresistable urgea


f.atyroa
to steala




7. is excessively patriotic g. virtuoso 
8. is a loud-mouthed woman h. termagant 
9. is a beginner i. matriarch 
10. is a dabbler 
j. kleptomaniac

V一more matching 
1. does not know whether a. dipsomaniac or not God exists 
2. is a criminal b. pyroma niac 

n
3. is a connoisseur of good c. ag ostic food 
4. sets fires for revenge d. hypochondrlijc 
5. meets adversity 
or pain e. gourmet without flinching 
6. wa llcs in his sleep f. stoic 
7. is obsessively addicted g. malefactor to d血K 
n

8. 
has imaginary ailments b. som a mbulist 
9. compulsively sets fires i. nymphomaniac 
10. is a woman who is j. incendiary sexually insatiable 


VI-recall a word 

1. to make unnecessary 1. 0. 
2. to flatter fulsomely 
3. to spread・slander about 
4. economical in speech 
5. trite and hackneyed 
6. word for word 
7. killing of masses of people 
8. inheritance from one's father 
9. belief in many gods 
10. a person aggressively fighting for a ca use 
11. sincere; valid; in good faith 
12.ebabbling ceaselessly aboutetrivia (adj.)e
13.eto speak to oneself, as in a playe
14.emasterpiecee
15.eunselfish; not revengefule
16.eable to walk after beingebedriddene
17.einability to fall asleep 
18.emorbid fear of heightse
19.ethe killing of one's brothere
20.eopposite in meaning (adj.)e
21.e"joy of life"e
22.eto rob of life or vigore
23.einexperience, unsophisticatione
24.escrupulously careful in theeobservance of proper proceduree
25.eclear, understandable (ofestyleeor language)e
26.ewary, cautious, watchfule
27.ea backward looke
28.eall of one mind(“订．）e
29.euncomplaining in face of pain,emisfortune, or emotionaledifficulties (adj.)e
30.ebetween cities (adj.)e



12.eGe
13. 
14.eMe
0. 

15.eMe
16.eAe

17. 18. 
19.eF.e
20.eAe
21.eJ__])eV.e
22.eD.e
23.eN.e
24.ePe
25.ePe

26. 
27.eRe
28.eUe29.e

30. 
KEY: A correct answer counts one point. Score your points for each part of the test, then add for a total. 
I 1-to write, 2-equal, 3-bad, evil, 4-to say or tell, 5-towish, 6-to do or make, 7-good, well, 8-faith, 9-toegive, 10-night, 11-horse, 12-balance, pound, 13-to be silent, 14-to speak, 15-alone,e16-belly, 17-big, large, great, 18-word, 19-to roll, 20-mind,e21-back, 22-voice, 23-to bear or carry, 24-to wallc, 25-sleepe
Your score: 

396 


n 
1-to show, 2-inan, male, 3-father, 4-name, 5-the same, 6-sound,,7-to rule, 8-mother, 9-to kill, killing, IO-person, 11-wife,,12-husband, 13-fire, i4-God, 15-to live, 16-to believe, 17-to,pierce sharply, 18-one, 19-to tremble, 20-spark, 21-city,,22-country (countryside), 23-knowledge, 24-all, 25-all,
Your score: 

m 
l-O,2-S, 3-0，4-0, 5-S,6-0, 7-0,8-S, 9-S,10-0, 11-0，,12-O,13-0,14-0, 15-0,16-0, 17-0,18-S, 19-O,20-S,
Your score: 

1-e,2-b, 3-g, 4-d,5-i,6-j, 7-a,8-h, 9-f, 10-c 
Your score. . V 
1-c,2-g,3-e,4-j, 5-f, 6-h, 7-a,8-d,9-b, 10-i 
..-Your score : 
VI l-obviate, 2-adulate, 3-malign, 4-laconic, 5-banal, 6-verbatim,,7-genocide, 8-patrimony, 9-polytheism, 10-militant, 11-bona:fide, 12-garrulous, 13一soliloquize,,14-magnum opus, 15-mag-nanimous, 16-ambulatory, 17-insomnia, 18-acrophobia, 19-frat-ricide, 20-antonymous, 21一Joie,de vivre, 2迈evitalize,,23-naivete, 24-punctilious, 25-perspicuous, 26-circumspect,,27-retrospect, 28-unanimous, 29-stoical, 30-interurban,
Your score: 
Your total score: 


Significance of Your Total Score: 
100-120: Masterly work; you are ready to move right along.,80-99: Good work; this review was useful to you.,


397 



65-79: Average work; you're getting a good deal out of your study, but perhaps you should review thoroughly after eachs岱sion二 
50-64: Barely acceptable; work harder. 35-49: Poor; further review is suggested before you go on. 
0-34: You can do much better if you:、reallytry. 

You might turn back for a moment to Chapter 8, in which you recorded your score on the first Comprehensive Test. Did you do better this time? Let's make a record of both scores at this point for the sake of comparison and-to give you a mark to shoot at in the Comprehensive Test you will take in Chapter 17. 
SCORES 

一．




PART THREE 

FINISlllNG WITH A FEELING 



14 

HOW TO TALK ABOUT COMMON PHENOMENA AND OCCURRENCES 


TEASER PREVI郅 
What word aptly describes: 

. dire poverty? 
. emotion experienced without direct participation? 
. something which lasts a very short time? 
. an inoffensive word for an unpleasant idea?


. light and e吓y banter? 
. someone who is cowlike in h!s stolidity? 
. homesickness? 
. harsh sound? 
. a meat-eating animal? 
. something kept secret? 






401 
SESSION 39 

This world, Robert Louis Stevenson once claimed-with, I thhtk, questionable logic-is so full of a number of things that we should all be as happy as kings. 
I doubt very strongly that happiness comes from the outside, or that kings are necessarily happy. But I will go this far (and no further) with Stevenson: the world is certainly full of a number of things. For instance, poverty and misery, hospitals and insane asy-lums, slums and racial restrictions, cut-down forests and once fer-tile lands becom迪progressivelysmore arid, war and death and taxes and bumbling diplomats. I know that Stevenson had a different sort of thing in mind, for romantic poets tend to view the world through rose-tinted spectacles, but it is often necessary to counter one extreme with another-and I simply wish to set the record straight. 
In this chapter we are going to discuss a number of things to be found in the world and in the minds of its inhabitants―poverty and wealth; secondhand emotions; the relativity of time; praise of various sorts; small talk and how to indulge in it; animals; long-ings for the past; sounds; eating habits; and many kinds and con-ditions of secrecy. 
As you see, when you start exploring ideas, as we constantly do iJ1 these chapters, you never know what will turn up. 
IDEAS 

1.sfor want of the green stuffs
There are those people who are forced (often through no faultsof their own) to pursue an existence not only devoid of such Iuxu-ries as radios, television sets, sunken bathtubs, electric orange-juice squeezers, automobiles, Jacuzzis, private swinuning pools, 




sufficient,food, heated homes, hot water, vermin-and rodent-free surroundings, decent clothing, etc. Such people live: 

in penury 
2.e
at least watch it.e


All normal people want and need love and at least a modicumeof excitement in their lives一soesay the psychologists. If no one loves them, and if they can find no one on whom to lavish their own love, they may often satisfy their ・ emotional longings and needs by getting their feelings secondhand―through reading love stories, attending motion pictur.s, watching soap operas, etc. 

vicarious feelings 
These are: 


During the late winter and early spring of 1948-49, great num-hers of people went practically berserk joining and forming "pyra-mid clubs." li you have not heard :of this amazing phenomenon, I won't attempt to describe it in any of its multifarious ramifica-tions, but the main point was that you paid two dollars, treated some people to coffee and dou咖uts,eand shortly thereafter (if you were gullible enough to fall for this get-rich-quick scheme) supposedly received a return of some fantastic amount like $2,064 for your investment. 

For a short time, pyramid clubs were a rage--soon they had vanished from the American scene. 
Anything that lasts for but a. short time and leaves no trace is: 


4.ehow not to call. a spade...e


Words are only symbols of things-they are not the thingsethemselves. (This, by the way, is one of the basic tenets of seman-





tics.) But many people identify the w.rd and the thing so closely that they fear to use certain words that symbolize things that are unpleasant to the皿e
I know that this is confusing, so let me illustrate. Words having to do with death, sex, certain portions of the anatomy, excretion, etc. are avoided by certain people. 

These people prefer circumlocutions―words that "talk around" an idea or that mean or imply something but don't come right out and say so directly. 
For example: WORD CIRCUMLOCUTION die expire; depart this life; pass away; leave this vale of tears sexual intercourse (intimate) relations; "playing house"; "shacking up" prostitute lady of the evening顶Ileede ioie; painted woman; lady of easy virtue; fille de nuit,・ streetwalker;.hooker house of prostitution house of ill-fame; bawdyhouse; house of ill-repute; bagnio; brothel; 


bordello;''house"; "massage parlor' buttocks, behind derriere; rear end; butt; tail breasts bosom; bust; curves toilet 
powder room; little girl's room; 
facilities; washroom; lavatory; head The left:handecolumn is the. direct, non-pussyfooting word. The 
如 
right-hand,eolumn is made up of: 


euphemisms 
5.esmall talke

"Whenever I'm in the dumps, I get a new suit."e"Oh, so that's where you get them!"e"Lend me a dime一Iewant to phone one of my friends." 

"Here's a quarter--call them,all." "The doctor says I have snoo in my blood!" 




"Snoo? What's snoo?" 
"Not a darn! What's new with you?" 
"What are twins?" 
"Okayi what are twins?" 
"Womb mates!" 

・e"I took a twip yesterday."e
"A twip?"e

"Yes, I took a twip on a twain!"e
These are examples of:e

badinage 
6.eeverything but give mllke

You've cow contentedly munching lts 
cud. Nothingeseems capable oseen f a disturbing this animal-and the animal seems to want nothing more out of life than to lead a simple, vegetable ex-
istence. Some people are like a cow
―.aim, patient, placid, phlegmatic, vegetable-like. They are: bovine* 

7. good old dayse
Do you sometimes experience a keen,. almost physical, longingefor associations or places of the past? 

When you pass the neighborhood in which you were born and where you spent yo缸 earlyeyears, do you have a sharp, strange re-action, almost akin to mild nausea? 

When you are away from home and friends and family, do pleasant remembrances crowd in on your mind to the point where your present loneliness becomes almost unbea戊ble,eand you actu-
ally feel a little sick? 
This common feeling is called: 


叩'Stalgiae
.eRemember Ogden Nash's delightful definition?The cow is of the bovine ilk, One end moo, the other end milk. 





8.esounds that gratee
Some so皿dseare so harsh, grating, and discordant that theyeoffend the ear. They lack all sweetness, harmony, pleasantness. Traffic noises of a big city, electronic rock music, chalk squeaking on a blackboard.... 

Such blaring, ear-splitting, or spine-tingling sounds are called: 
cacophonous 


9.eeating habitse
Lions, tigers, wolves, and some other mammals 
subsist entirelyeon flesh. No spinach, salad greens, whole-wheat 
cereals, sugar, or spices-just good, red meat. 
These mammals are: carnivorous 
10.eprivate and publice
There are certain things most of us do in private, like taking aebath. Some people like'to engage in. other activities in complete privacy--eating, reading, watching TV, sleeping, for example. 
The point is that, while these activities may be conducted in pri一 vacy, there is never any reason for比epingethem secret. 
But there are other activities that are kept not only private, but well-sbro11ded in secrecy and. conceal叫fromepublic knowl”萨eThese activities are皿e血迅illegal,eor llDSafe--like having an affair with so霆eoneewhose spo匹eeis your best friend, betraying 呻itarysecrets的如enemy,行a血gein narcotics, bribing public officials, etc. 
Arrangements, activities,＂互ee血gsethat fall under this cate-gory are called: 
clandestine 







USING THE WORDS 

Can yau pronounce the words? 
1. penurye2.. vi

v,carwuse
3.eephemerale
4. euphemism 
5. badinagee
6.ebovinee
7.enostalgiae
8.ecacophonye
9.ecarnivoro
use
10.eclandestine 


Can you work with the words? 
l. penury 
2.evicarious 
3. ephemeral 
4. euphemisme
5.ebadinagee
6.ebovinee
7.enostalgiae
8.ecacophonye
9.ecarnivorouse10.. clandestinee


PEN'-ya-ree vi-KAIR'-ee-asea-FEM'.a-ralY仅'-fa-miz-ameBAD'-a-naje
BO'-vin'ena-STAL'-ja

k今KOF'-a-neee
kahr-NIV'-ar-as
klim-DES'一tine
a. impermanente
b.ebanter 
c.ehomesicknesse
d.emeat-eatinge
e.ecircumlocutione
f.eharsh noisee
g.epovertye
h. secrete
i. placid; stolid; cowlikee
j.esecondhande



KEY: 1-g,2-j, 3-a, 4-e, 5-b, 6-i, 7-c, 8-f,9-d, 10-h 
Do you understand the words? (I) 
1.eDo wealthy people normally live ineYES NO penury?e
2. Is a vicarious thrill one that comes fromsYES NO direct participation?s
3.sDo ephemeral things last a very shortsYES NO time?s
4. Is a euphemism the substitution of ansYES NO inoffenslve term for another of the same meaning that may sound offensive,svulgar, or indelicate?s
5. Does badinage show lighthearted YES NO frivolity? 、 
6. Are bovine people high-strung and YES NO nervous? 
7.sDoes one get a feeling of nostalgia for YES NO past occurrences and relationships?s
8.sIs cacophony pleasant and musical?sYES NO 
9. Do carnivorous animals eat meat? 
YES NO 


407 





l 0. Is a clandestine meeting conducted insYES NO secrecy? 

KEY: I-no, 2-no, 3-yes, 4-yes, 5-yes, 6-no, 7-yes, 8-no, 9-yes, l 0-yes 


Do you und.rstand the words? 1111 
1.spenury-affluence 
2.svicarious一actuals
3.sephemeral--eternals
4.seuphemism一Jesssoffensive word 
5.sbadinage-light, teasing talks
6. bovine一出gh-strungs
7. nostalgia一longingsfor the past 
8. cacophony―euphonys


SAME SAME SAME SAME SAME SAME SAME SAME OPPOSITE OPPOSITE OPPOSITE OPPOSITE OPPOSITE OPPOSITE OPPOSITE 
｀ 
OPPOSITB 

KEY: 1-O，2-O, 3-0,4-S,5-S,6--0, 7-0, 8-0, 9-0，10-S 

(The new words used in this test will be discussed in later sec-tions of this chapter.) 
Can you recall the words? 
1.e
harsh sounde1. 

2. 
having a short lifee2. 

3. 
dire povertye3. Pe

4. 
substitution of an indirect or 4.epleasant w.ord or phrase for aepossibly offensive one of theesamemeanmge

5
. experienced as a spectator, 5.eV. rather than as a participant 

6. 
acute feeling of hom.sicknesse6. N. 

7.e
light, half-teasing banter 7.eB 

8. 
subsisting solely on meat 8. 

9.e
cow.like; stolid 9.. B. 

10. 
secret; concealed ・e10.e


Y..EY: 1-cacophony, 2-ephemeral, 3-penury, 4-euphernism,e5-vicarious, 6-nostalgia, 7-badinage, 8--carnivorous,e9-bovine, 10--clandestinee

SESSION 40 


ORIGINS AND RELATED WORDS 
1.emoney, and what it will buy 


The modern world operates largely by means of a price struc-ture--wealth and poverty are therefore words that indicate the 

possession, on the one hand, or the lack, on the other, of money. Penury, from Latin penuria, need, neediness, is dire, abject pov-erty, complete lack of financial resources. It is one of the two strongest English words there are to denote absence of money. The adjective form, penurious（产NYO't>r'-ee心seor p千N叩R'eee心s),estrangely enough, may mean poverty-stricken, but more commonly signifies stingy, close-fisted, niggardly; so sparing in the use of money as to give the appearance of penury. 
Penurious is a synonym of parsimonious (pahr'一s:i--M妇ee-:is), but is much stronger in implication. A parsimonious person is stingy; a penurious person is twice as stingy. Penury, then, is pov-erty; penuriousness is stinginess, excessive frugality. l'he noun form of parsimonious is parsimony (PAHR'-s:i-mo'-nee). 
A somewhat milder word than penury for poverty (if you can imagine a mild degree of poverty) is indigence_ (IN＇如－j:ins).eIn-digent (IN＇一如j:int)epeople are not absolutely penniless-they are simply living in reduced circumstances, forgoing many creature comforts, forced to undergo the type of hardships that may ac-company a lack of sufficient funds. 
On the other hand, a close synonym of penury, and one of equal strength, is destitution (des'－氐T叹Y-sh叩）．eDestitutee(DES'－氐t.t)epeople do not even have the means for mere subsistence--as such, they are perhaps on the verge of starvation. Penu,y and, destitution are not merely straitened ciI'Cum-stances―they are downright desperate circumstances. 
To turn now to the brighter side of the picture, the possession of money, especially in increasing amounts, is expressed by affluence (AF'-1砬叩s).eAffluent (AF'-1砬:int)epeople, people of affluence, or those living in a/JIuent circumstances, are more than comfortable; in addition, there is the implication that their wealth is increasing. People who live in affluence probably own large and costly homes, run big, new cars, belong to expensive golf or country clubs, etc. 
A much stronger term is opulence (OP'-y今fans),ewhich not only implies much greater wealth than affluence, but in addition suggests lavish expenditures and ostentatiously luxurious sur-roundings. People of opulence own estates; drive only outra-geously expensive and specially equipped cars (Rolls-Royces, Mercedes-Benzes, Porsches, etc.); have a corps of servants, in-





eluding major-domo; belong to golf and yacht and country clubs, etc.a , etc. Embroider 
the fantasy as much as you wish to. Opulent (OP'-ya-font) may describe 
people, surroundings, styles of life, or the like. 
・ 

Affluent is a combination of the prefix ad-, to, toward (chang-ing to af-before a root beginning with f), plus the Latin verb fluo, to flow--affluence is that delightful condition in which money keeps flowi.g to us,. and no one ever turns off the spigot. Other 
・
words from theosame root, fluo, flow, fluid, influence, confluence (a "flowing together"), to fluent (are the words flow smoothly), etc. Opulent is from Latin opulentus, wealthy. No other English words derive from this root. 
2. doing and feelingo

If you watch a furious athletic event, and you get tired, thoughothe athletes expend all the energy-that's vicarious fatigue. 
If your friend goes on a bender, and as you watch him absorb one drink after another, you begin to feel giddy and stimulated, that's vicarious intoxication. 
If you watch a mother in a motion picture or dramatic play suffer horribly at the death of her child, and you go through the same agony, that's vicarious tonnent. 
You can experience an emotion, then, in two ways: firsthand, through actual participation; or vicariously, by becoming em.; . pathetically involved in another person's feelings. 
Some people, for example, lead essentially dull and colorless Iiyes. Through their childre兀throughoreading or attending the theater, however, they can experience all the emotions felt by others whose lives move along at a swift, exciting pace. These people Jive at second hand; they live vicariously. 
3.otime is relativeo

Elephants and turtles live almost forever; human beings in theoUnited States have a life expectancy in general of sixty-eight to seventy-six years (though the gradual conquest of disease is con. 
411 










stantly lengthening our span);t dogs live from seven to ten years; and some insects exist for only a few hours or days. 
One such short-lived creature is the dayfly, which in Greek was called ephemera. Hence anything so short-lived, so unenduring that it scarcely seems to outlast the day, may be called ephemeral. 
A synonym of ephemeral is evanescent (ev-.NES'-ant), fleet-ing, staying for a remarkably short time
, vanishing. Something intangible, like a feeling, may be called evanescent; it's here, and before you can quite comprehend it, it's gone--vanished. 
The noun is evanescence (ev'-a-NES'-ans) ; the verb is to evanesce (ev仑NBS').oEvanescent is built on the prefix e-(ex-), out, the root vanesco, to vanish, and the adjective suffix -ent. The suffix -esce often, but not always, means begin to. -Escent may mean becoming or beginning to. Thus: 

adolescent-beginning to grow up; 
beginning to become an adult 
evanesce-begin to vanish 
convalesce-begin to get well after illness 
putrescent一beginningoto roto; 
beginning to become putrid 
obsolescent一becomingoobsolete 


4. an exploration of various good things 

A euphemism is a word or expression that has been substituted for anoilier that is likely to offend一itois built on the Greek prefix eu:., good, the root pheme, voice, and the noun suffix -ism.(Etymo-logically, "something said in a good voice!") Adjective: eu-phemistic (y氓＇一位MIS'-tik)o

Other English words constructed from the prefix eu-: 
l.oeuphony (YOO'一记nee)―goodosound; pleasant lilt ororhythm (phone, sound) 

Adjective: euphonic (y仅.-FON'-ik)oor euphonious (y仅>-FO'-nee-;,s) 

t Latest figures, 1978, for the United States: males, 68.5 years; females,
76.4 years. 



2.aeulogy 
(Y.'-la-jee)―etymologically, "good speech"; a formal speech of・ praise, usually delivered a funeral oration. 
Logos in this term means word or speech, as as it did in philology (Chapter 6). Logos more commonly means science or study, but has the alternate meaning in eulogy, philology, monologue, dia-logue, epilogue (words upon the other words, or "after-words"), and prologue (words before .he main part, "before-words," or introduction). 


Adjective: euloglsti,: (y砬片JIS'一tik);averb: eulogize (YOO-la-j记）；personawho delivers a eulogy: eulogist (YOO-Ia-jist) 
3. euphoria (y砬FAWR'-ee-a)一名oodafeeling, a sense of men-
tal buoyancy and physical well-being Adjective: euphori,: (y.-FAWR'-ik) 

4. euthanasia (y.勺\NAY'-zha)--etymologically,a"good death"; method of painless death inflicted on people suffering from incurable diseases-not legal at the present time, but ad-vacated by many people. The word derives from eu-plus Greek thanatos, death. 
5.aexploration of modes of expression 
Badinage is a half-teasing, non-malicious, frivolous banter,_ in-tended to amuse rather than wound. Badinage・ has a close syno-nym, persiflage (PUR'-s今flahzh'),awhich is a little more derisive, a trifle more indicative of contempt or mockery-but stJ.11 totally unmalicious. 

In line with badinage and persiflage, there are four other forms of expression you should be familiar with: cliche (klee-SHAY'), bromide (BRO'－血d'),aplatitude (PLAT'－:;i-t.d), and anodyne (AN'－今a面）．a
A cliche is a pattern of words which was once new and fresh, but which now is so old, worn, and threadbare that only banal, unimaginative speakers and writers ever use it. Examples are: fast and furious,・ unsung heroes,・ by leaps and bounds; conspicuous by its absence; green with envy,・ etc. The most devastating criticism you can make of a piece of writing is to say, "It is full of clich纣＇；athe most pointed insult to a person's way of talking is,''Youspeak in clichG"



A bromide is any trite, dull, and probably fallacious remark that shows little evidence of original thinking, and that therefore convinces a listener of the total absence of_perspicacity on the part of the speaker. 
For instance, some cautious, dull-minded individual might warn you not to talce a chance in these words: "Remember it's better to be safe than sorry!" 
Your sneering response might be: "Oh, that old bromide尸e
A platitude is similar to a clichior bromide, in that it is a dull, trite, hackneyed, unimaginative pattern of words-but, to add in-sult to injury (cliche), the spealcer uses it with an air of novelty一eas if he just made it up, and isn't he the brilliant fellow! 
An anodyne, in the medical sense, is a drug that allays pain without curing an illhess, lilce aspirin or morphine. Figuratively, an anodyne is a statement made to allay someone's fears or anxie-ties, not believed by the speaker, but intended to be believed by the listener. "Prosperity is just around the comer" was a popular anodyne of the 1930s. 
A bromide is also a drug, formerly used as a sedative. Sedatives dull the senses-the statement labeled a bromide comes from a speaker of dull wit and has a sedative effect on the listener. The adjective is bromidic (br吐MID'-ik),eas in "his bromidic way of 
_ expressing himself." Platitude derives from Greek platys, broad or flat, plus the noun suffix -tude. Words like plateau (flat land), plate and platter (flat dishes), and platypus (flat foot) all derive from the same root as platitude, a flat statement, i.e., one that falls flat, despite the speaker's high hopes for it. The adjective is platitudinous (plat'-a-TOO-d今n忑），asein, "What a platitudinous remark." Anodyne is a combination of the negative prefix an-with Greek odyne, pain. Anodynes, as drugs, lessen pain; as statements, they are intended to reduce or eliminate emotional pain or arutiety. 

REVIEW OF ETY从OLOGYe
PREFIX, ROOT, SUFFIX MEANING ENGLISH WORD 
1. penuriae
need, neediness 
2. ad-(af-) to, toward 
3. fluo to flow 
4..opulentus.
5..ephemera.
6. e-, ex-






1. vanesco.
8..-esce.
9. -ent.
10..-ence.
11..eu-
12..pheme.
13. -ism.
14..phone.
15..-ic 
16. -ous 



11..logos 
18..-ize 
19..thanatos 
20. platys.
21. an-
22..odyne.


USING TH. WORDS 
wealthy 
dayfly out to vanish begin to 
adjective suffix noun suffix good 

noun suffix sound adjective suffix adjective suffix word, speech verb suffix death broad or flat negative prefix pain 






Can you pronounce the words? (I) 
1. penurious p:i-NY氓'-ee-:is.or 
2. pen11rwusness p:i-NY叩R'-ce-:is-n:is.or 

3. 
4. 
parsimony 

5. indigence.
6..indigent.
7..destitltlion.
8. destitute.
9..affluence.
10. affluent 
11..opulence 
12. opulent 


pahr'一s.1-MO'-nec-:,s.
PAHR'-s:>-mo'-nee 
IN'-d:i-j:>ns 
IN'-d衬叩t
des'-ta-TOO'－shan DES'-t:i-t仅t.AF'-loo-.1ns AF'一lO-3nt.OP'-y今fans.OP'-y:i-1:int 







Can you pronounce the Words? (II) 
1.eevane..cellteev'-:i-NES'-:int 
2.eevanescence ev'-:i-NES'-:,ns 
3.eevanescee
ev'-:i-NES' 
4.eeuphemistic y氓位MIS'-tike
5.eeuphonyYOO'-f今neee
6. euphonice
y仅FON'-ike
7. euphoniouse. y叩－FO'-nee-:ise
8.eeulogy YOO'一片jeee
9.e・ eulogistic
y叩'-1:i-JIS'-tike
10. eulogize YOO＇一l衬记e



Can you pronounce the words? 11111 

1. euphoriay砬FAWR'-ee-ae
2.eeuphoricy仅FAWR'-ike

3.eeuthanasiae
y氓'-th沁AY'-zhae

4. persiflage PUR'-sa-flahzh' 
5.ecliche klee-SHAY' 
6.ebromideeBRO'-mid' 

1. bromidic bro-MID'-ik 
8. platitude PLAT'－今t仅de
9.
platitudino匹eplat'-a-TOO'-d今nase




10. anodyne AN'-a-din' 

Can you work with the words? Ill 

1. penurious 
a. poor; of limited meanse
2.eindigenteb.einoffensivee
3. atHuentec.eflat, trite 
4.eevanescent _ d. feeling tiptope
5. euphemisticee.ewealthye'6. euphonious-f. pleasant in sounde


7.eeuphoriceg. stingy; tight-fistede
8.eplatitudinouseh.efleetinge

KEY: 1-g,2-a,3-e,4-h,5-b,6-f, 7-d,8--<: 
4)6 



Can you work with the words? (II)  
1. parsimony  a. lavish luxury  
2. destitution  b. painless death  
3. opulence  c. pleasant sound  
4. evanescence  d. trite remark  
5. euphony  e. impermanence  
6. euphoria  f. feeling of well-being  
7. euthanasia  g. stinginess  
8.plat血de  h. poverty  

KEY: 1-g, 2-h, 3-a,4-e,5-c,6-f, 7-b, 8-d 
Can you work with the words? (Ill) 
1. anodyne 
2. bromid.e 
3. persiflage 
4. eulogy 
5. penuriousness 
6. indigence 
7. affluence 



a. light, teasing banter 
b. tightfistedness 
c. statement intended to allay anxiety 
d. poverty, want 
e. high, formal praise 
f. wealth 
g. trite statement 



Can you work with the words? (IV) 
1. pars1moruous 
2. destitute 
3. opulent 
4. vicarious 
5. euphonic 
6. eulogistic 
7. evanesce 
8. eulogize 

a. begin to vanish 
b. stingy, frugal 
c. highlypraising 
d. hackneyed phrase 
e. ostentatiously wealthy 
f. stilted in expression 


g. pleasant一sounding 
b. in want 




9.ebromidice
i.esecondhande
10.eClicheej.epraisee
KEY: 1-b, 2-h. 3--e,4-i,5-g，妇，7-a,8寸，9-f,e10-d 

Do you understand the words? Ill 
1.eDo penurious people'satisfy theire
extravagant desires?e
2.els penuriousness the characteristic of aemiser? 
3.eIf you are parsimonious with praise
, doeyou lavish it on others? 
4.eAre people with extremely low incomeseforced to live a life of parsimony? 
5.eIs indigence a sign of wealth?e
6.eAre indigent people often aided by 
stateewelfare?e

7.. If you live in a state of destitution, do you have all the money you need? 
8.eIs a completely destitute person likelyeto have to live in want'! 
9.eDoes a person of affluence generallyehave petty money worries? 
10.eAre opulent surroundings indicative ofegreat wea.th? 


YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES'  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  


KEY: 1-no, 2-yes, 3-no, 4-yes, 5玉o,e6-yes, 7-no, 8-yes, 9-no, 10-yese
Do you understand the words? (Ill  
-1．eCan you engage in vicarious exploits by reading叩novels?e2.eDoes anev叩"centefeeling remain for aeconsiderable time?  YES 邓S  NO NO  


418 



3.eDo parents generally indulge ineYES NO euphemisms in front of young children?e
4.eIs poetry generally euphonious?邓S NO 

5.eDoes a sincere eulogy indicate one's邓S NO feeling of admiration?e
6.eIs euphoria a feeling of malaise?eYES NO 
7.Is 
eut加nasiaepracticed on animals?eYES NO 

8.eIs persiflage an indication ofeYES NO seriousness?e
9.eDoes a liberal use of cliches show邓S NO original thinking? 
10.eIs an.anodyne intended to relieve fears?邓S NO 

KEY: 1-yes, 2-no, 3-yes, 4-yes, 5-yes, 6-no, 7-yes, 8-no, 9-no, 10-yese
Do you understand the words? (Ill) 
1.eIs a platitude flat血ddull?eYES NO 
2.eIf a person uses bromides, is he likely toeYES NO be an interesting conversationalist?e
3.eIf you indulge in persiflage, are you邓S NO being facetious?e
4.eAre the works of Beethoven considered邓S NO euphonious? 
5.eCan parents receive a vicarious thrill邓S NO from their children's triumphs? 

KEY: I-yes, 2-no, 3-yes, 4-yes, 5-yes 
Can you recall t.e words? 
1.ea statement, usually untrue,e1. meant to alleviate fear＼ 
2. light banter 2.ep,e
3.ea hackneyed phrasee3. 
4.
fleeting一-lastingea very shorte




time (adj.)5.laudatory―delivered in tones of formal praise (ad卜）6.process of painlessly putting to

death a victim of an incurableediseasee
7. stingy (adj.)e
8.ein want (adj.)e
9.ewealthe
10.e-immense wealthe
11.eadverb describing the mannereof responding empathetically toeanother's actse
12.estinginess (noun)
13一14.epoverty 

15.eimpermanencee
16.epleasing sounde
17.esubstituting inoffensive wordse(adj.)e
18.esense of well-beinge
19.etrite remarke
20.ebanal remarke
21.ebegin to vanish (v.)e


22.epoverty-stricken (adj.)e23-24. wealthy (two必杠）e
25.efeeling tiptop (adj.)e
26.epleasant in sound (adj.)e
27.eformal praisee28.trite(＂让）e

29.flat, d咄(“订．）e
30.eto praisee4. 
5. 
6. 
7.eP.eor P.e
8. De
9. Ae10.e0.e

11.eV.e
12.ePeor P.e
13.eIe
14.eD.e15.e16.e17.e

18. 
19.eBe
20.eP.e21.e

22.eI.e23.e24. 0e25.e26.e
ore27.e
28.eBe
29.eP.e30.e


KEY: 1-anodyne, 2-persiflage, 3-cliche, 4七vanescent,e5-eulo-gistic, 6--euthanasia, 7-parsimonious or penurious, 




8-destitute, 9-affluence, IO-opulence, 11-vicariously,eii-parsimony or penuriousness, 13-indigence, 14-desti-tution, 15-evanescence, ・ 16-euphony, 17-euphemistic,e18-euphoria, 19-bromide, 20-platitude, 21-evanesce,e22-indigent, 23-affluent, 24-opulent, 25-euphoric,e26-euphonic or euphonious, 27-eulogy, 28-broniidic,e29-platitudinous; 30-eulogizee

(End of Session 40) 

SESSION 41 

ORIGINS AND RELATED WORDS 


1.epeople are the craziest animalse

Bovine, placid like a cow, stolid, patient, unexcitable; is built onethe Latin word for ox or cow, bovis, plus the suffix -ine, like, simi-lar to, or characteristic of. To call someone bovine is of course far from complimentary, for this adjective is considerably stronger than phleg血tic,e
and implies a certain mild contempt on the part of the speaker. Abo咖eeperson is somewhat like a vegetable: eats and grows and lives, but apparently is lacking in any strong feel-ings. 






1.eleonine (LEE＇七nin')-likeea lion in appearance or temper-ament. 
2.ecanine (KAY'，面）一likeea dog. As a noun, the ・word referseto the species to which dogs belong. Our c血ineeteeth are similar to由oseeof a dog. 





421 

3.afeline (FEE＇一rm，）-catlike.aWe may speak of feline grace;aor (insultingly) of feline temperament when we mean that a per-son is''catty." 
4.aporcine (PAWR'一Sin')一piglike.a
5.avulpine (V切::-pin'）―foxlikeain appearance or tempera-ment. When applied to people, this adjective usually indicates the shrewdness of a fox. 
6.aursine (UR'一sin'）一bearlike.a
7.alupine (LOO＇一pin)一wolflike.a

8.aequine (EE'-kwin')-horselike; "horsy."a
9.apiscine (PIS'-in')-fishlike.a

All these adjectives come from the corresponding Latin wordsafor・ the animals; and, of course, each adjective also describes, or refers to, the specific animal as well as to the person lilcened to the 
animal.  
 
1.aleoa lion  
2.acanisa3.afelisa dog cat  

 4.aporcus 5.a・vulpus 6.aursusa pigfoxabear  
7.alupusa8.aequusa9, piscisa wolf horse fish  


The word for meat from a pig-pork--derives, obviously, from porcus. Ursa Major and Ursa Minor, the Great Bear and the Lit-tie Bear, the two conspicuous groups of stars in the north江nasky(conspicuous, of course, only on a clear night), are so labeled be-cause in formation they resemble the outlines・ of bears. The femi-nine name Ursula is, by etymology, "a little bear," which, perhaps, is a strange name to burden a child with. The skin disease lupus was so named because it eats into the flesh, as a wolf might. 
2.ayou can't go home againa
Nostalgia; built on two Greek roots, nostos, a return, and algos,apain {as in neuralgia, cardialgia, etc.), is a feeling you can't ever 





understand until you've experienced it-and you have probably experienced it whenever some external stimulus has crowded your mind with scenes from an earlier. day. 
You know how life often seems much pleasanter in retrospect? Your・conscious memory tends to store up the pleasant experiences of the past (the trauma and unpleasant experiences may get buried in the uncons.ious), and when you are lonely or unhappy you may begin to relive these pleasant occurrences. It is then that 
you feel the emotional P,、aineand longing that we call nostalgia. 

The adjective is nostalgic (nos-TAL'一jik),eas in "motion pie-tures that are nostalgic of the fifties," or as in, "He feels nostalgic whenever he pasJ;es・ 138th Street and sees the house in which he grew up." 

3.esoundingseCacophony is itself a harsh-sounding word一andeis the only one that exactly describes the 
unmusical, grating, ear-offending noises you are likely to hear in man-made surroundings: the New York subway trains thundering through their tunnels (they are also, these days in the late 1970s, eye-offending, for which we might coin the term cacopsis, noun, and cacoptic, adjective), the traffic bedlam of rush hours in a big city, a steel mill, an automobile fac-tory, a blast furnace, etc. Adjective: cacophonous (k今KOF'-a-nas). 

These words are built on the Greek roots kakos, bad, harsh, or ugly, and phone, sound. 
Phone, sound, is found also in: 


1.etelephone-etymologically, "sound from afar"e
2. euphony-pleasant sounde
3.ephonograph-etymologically, "writer of sound"e
4.esaxophone一aemusical instrument (hence sound) invented by Adolphe Sax 
5.exylophone-a musical instrument; etymologically,''soundsethrough wood" (Greek功lon,ewood) 
6.ephonetics (f今NET'-iks)―theescience of the sounds of Ian-guage; the adjective is phonetic (f:i-NET'-ik), the expert a phone-tician (fo'-n:i-TISH'..gn) 
7. phonics-the science of sound; also the method of teachingoreading by drilling the sounds of letters and syllables 










423 




4.othe flesh and allo
Carnivorous combines carnis, flesh, and voro, to devour. A car-nivorous animal, or. carnivore (KAHR.'-n今vawr'),ois one whose main diet is meat. 
Voro, to devour, is the origin of other words referring to eating 
habits: 1.herbivorous (bur-BIV'心r-::is)―subsistingoon grains, grasses,oand other vegetation, as cows, deer, horses, etc. The animal is a herbivore (HUR'－阮vawr').Derivation: Latin herba, herb, plus 
voro, to devour 
2. omnivorous (om-NIV'-::ir-:is)--eating everything: meat,ograins, grasses, fish, insects, and anything else digestible. The only species so indiscriminate in their diet are humans and rats, plus, of course, some cats and dogs that live with people (in contrast to felines and canines-lions, tigers, bobcats, wolves, etc.-that are not domesticated). Omnivorous (combining Latin omnis, all, with 

voro, plus the adjective suffix -ous) refers not only to food. An omnivorous reader reads everything in great quantities (that is, devours all kinds of reading matter). 
3. voracious (vaw-RAY'-sbas）一-devouring;ohence, greedy or gluttonous; may refer either to food or to any other habits. One may be a voracious eater, voracious reader, voracious in one's pursuit of money, pleasure, etc. Think of the two noun forms of 
loquacious. Can you write two derived from voracious? (1)o(2)' nouns 
5.o"allness"
Latino叩心，all,ois the origin of:o
1.oomnipotent (om-NIP＇仑tant)-alI-powerful,oan adjectiveousually applied to God; also, 
to any ruler whose governing powers 
unlimited, which allows for exaggeration, as King Canare ute the Great proved to his sycophansome tic courtiers when he or-

dered the tide to come so far up the beach and no further. He got soaking wet! (Omnis plus Latin potens, potentis, powerful, as in potentate, a powerful ruler; impotent (IM'-p沁nt),epowerless; potent, powerful; and potential, possessing power or ability not yet exercised). Can you write the noun form of omnipotent? 


2.
om心ciente(om-NISH'-ant)e―all-knowing: hence, infinitelyewise.(Omnis plus sciens, knowing.) We have discussed this adjec-tive in a previous chapter, so you will have no problem writing the noun: 

3.eomnipresent (om勺l:>-PREZ'心nt)一presentein all places ateonce. Fear was omnipresent in Europe during 1939 just before World War II. A synonym of omnipresent is ubiquitous (y.-BIK.'-wa-tas), from Latin ubique, everywhere. The ubiquitous ice cream vendor seems to be everywhere at the same time, tinkling those little bells, once spring arrives. The ubiquitous little red wagon rides around everywhere in airports to refuel departing planes. "Ubiquitous laughter greeted the press secretary's re-inark," i.e., laughter was heard everywhere in the room. The noun forms 
are ubiquity (y砬BIK.'-w今tee)e



all." In the・ shortened form bu.r we have a public vehicle for all who can pay; in a John Galsworthy omnibus we have a book con-faining all of Galsworthy's works; in an omnibus legislative bill we have a bill containing all the miscellaneous provisions and appro-priations left out of other bills. 

6.emore fleshe
Note how carnis, flesh, is the building block of:e
l.ecarnelian (kahr-NEEL'-yan)-aereddish color, the color ofered flesh. 

2.ecarnival (KAHR'-na-val)-0riginally the season of merry-making just before Lent, when people took a last fling before say-ing 
"Carne vale/" "Oh flesh, farewell!'.'(Latin vale, farewell, goodbye). Today a carnival is a kind of outdoor entertainment 




with games, rides, side shows; and, of course, lots of food―also any exuberant_ or riotous merrymaking or festivities. 
3. carnal (KAHR'-n:il)一mosteoften found in phrases likee
or appetites of the flesh rather than of the spirit―hence, sensual, lecherous, lascivious, lubricious, etc. The noun is carnality (kahr-NAL'-:i-tee). 
"carnal pleasures" ・or "carnal appetites," and signifying pleasures 
4.ecarnage (KAHR'-n:ij)―great destruction 
of life (that 
is, ofehuman flesh), as in war or mass murders. 
5.ereincarnation (ree'-in-kahr-NA Y'-sh:in)-a rebirth or reap-pearance. Believers in reincarnation maintain that one's soul per-sists after it has fled the flesh, and eventually reappears in the body of a newborn infant or animal, or in another form. Some of us, according to this interesting philosophy, were once Napoleon, Alexander the Great, Cleopatra, etc. The verb is to reincarnate (ree-in-KAHR'-nayt), to bring (a soul) back in another bodily form. 
6. incarnate (in-KAHR'-n:it)-in the flesh. If we use this adjec-tive to call someone "the devil incarnate," 
we mean that here is the devil in the flesh. Or we may say that someone is evil incar-nate, that is, the personification of evil, evil invested with human or bodily form. The verb to incarnate (in-KAHR'-nayt) is to em-body, give bodily form to, or make real. 
7.edark secrets 



Clandestine comes from -Latin clam, secretly, and implies se-crecy or concealment in the working out of a plan that is danger-ous or illegal. Clandestine is a close synonym of surreptitious (sur'勺p-TISH'-as),ewhich means stealthy, sneaky, furtive, gener-ally because of fear of detection. 
The two words cannot always, however, be used interchange-
ably. We may speak of either clandestine or surreptitious meetings 
or arrangements; but usually only of clandestine plans and only 
of SU汀eptitious・emovements or actions. Can you write the noun 
form of surreptitious? 

PREFIX, ROOT, SUFFIX 
1. -ine 
2. leo 
3. felis 
4. porcus 
5. canis 6.,vulpus 


1. ursus 
8. lupus・ 
9. equus 
10. piscis 
11. nostos 
12. algos 
13. -ic 
14. kakos 
15. phone 16.乃,lon 

17. carnis 
18. VOTO 
19. herba 
20. omnis 
21. -ous 
22. potens, potentis 
23. sciens 
24. ubique 


REVI氏I/ OF ETY从OLOGY
25. -ity noun suffix 
26. vale farewell 
27. -al adjective・ suffix 
28. re-again, back 
29. -ate verb suffix 
30. in-in 

ENGLISH WORD

MEANING like, similar to, characteristic of 
lion cat pig 
dog fox bear wolf horse fish a return pain adjective suffix bad, harsh, ugly sound wood flesh to devour herb all adjective suffix powerful knowing everywhere 




427 

31.oclamosecretly 
32.o-entoadjective suffix 
33.o-enceonoun suffix 


USING THE WORDS 

Can you pronounce the words? (I) 
1.oleonineo
2. canineo

3.ofelineo
4.oporcineo
5.ovulpineo
6.oursineo


1.olupineo
8. eqwneo

9.opiscineo
10.onostalgico

Can you pronounce the words? (II) 
1.ocacophonouso
2.ophoneticso
3.ophonetico
4.ophoneticiano

5. carnivoreo
6.oherbivoreo
7.oherbivoro匹 
8.oomnivorouso
9.ovoraciouso
10.ovoracityo
11.oomnipotento
12.oimpotento
13.oimpotenceo14 . omnipotenceo












LEE宅nin'o
KAY'-nin' 
FEE'-lin' PAWR'-sin' V皿'-pin'
UR'一soin'o

LOO'-pin' 
EE'-kwin' PIS'-in' nos-TAL'一jiko

k今KOF'七ngsof今NET'-iks氐NET'-ik每n:i-TISH'如 KAHR'-n今vawr'HUR'一证vawr'ohur-BIV＇一or-asoom-NIV心＇r-asovaw-RAY'-shgs vaw-RAS宅teeom-N芷:..g.t;intIM'-1正tgntIM'-产tansoom-NIP'-今tgnso




Can you pronounce the words? (Ill) 
1.-omniscient 
2. omniscience 
3. omnipresent 
4. omnipresence-

5.-ubiquitous-
6. ubiquity-
7.-ubiquitousness-
8.-omnibus 


Can you pronounce the words? (IV) 
1.-carnelian 
2.-carnal-3.car皿lity-

4. carnage 
5.-reincarnation-
6. reincarnate (v;)-
7.-incarnate (adj.) 
8.-incarnate (v.). 
9.-surreptitious-
10.-surreptitiousness-



Can you work with the words? Ill 
1.-leonine-
2. canme-

3.-feline-
4. porcine-
5. vulpine-
6.-ursine-
7. voracious-

8.-omnipotent-
9.-omniscient-
10.-surreptitious-



om-NISH'-:int om-NISH'-:ins om'-n今PREZ'-:int-om'-n今PREZ'-:insy砬BIK'-w吵sy砬BIK'-w今tee-
y砬BIK'-w:i-t:is-n:is-OM'-n:i-b:is 

kahr-NEEL＇ -yan 
KAHR'-nal kahr-NAL'-a-tee KAHR'－na-j ree'-in-kahr-NA Y'-shan ree'-in-KAHR'-nayt in-KAHR'-nat in-KAHR'-nayt 
sur＇一ap-TISH'-as-sur＇一ap-TISH'-as-nas-

a. doglike-
b.-greedy, devouring-
c. foxlike-
d.-all-powerful-
e.-stealthy, clandestine-
f.-Iionlike-
g.-all-knowing-
h.-bearlike-
i.-catlike-
j.-piglike-






4-j, 5--c,6-h,7-b,8-d,9-g, 10-e 
429 


Ca_n you work with the words? (11) 
1. nostalgic 
2. cacophonous 
3. herbivorous 
4. omnivorous 

5. ubiquitous 
6. carnal 
7. incarnate 


a. harsh-sounding 
b. eating everything 
c. lewd,lecherous,lubricious 
d. found everywhere 
e. homesick 
f. grass-eating 
g. in the flesh 


KEY: 1-e,2-a, 3-f, 4-b,5-d,6-c, 7-g 


Can you work with the words? (Ill) 
1. phonetics 
2. carmvore 

3. voracity 

4. omnipotence 

5. omn1一1ence 

6. ommpresence 
7. omnibus 
8. carnelian 
9. carnality 
10. carnage 
11. surreptitiousness 
12. reincarnation 


a. universality 
b. a color C. in:6.nitepower 
d. furtiveness;・ stealth; sneaki-ness 
e. lechery, lasciviousness, Iu-bricity 
f. infinite wisdom 
g. science of speech sounds 
h. slaughter 
i. a collection of all things 
j. greediness 
k. meat-eater L a return to life in a new body 



12-1 

Can you work with the words? (IV) 
1. 
lupine 

2. 
equine 

3. 
piscine 

4. 
phonetician 

5. 
impotent 

6. 
ubiquity 

7. 
reincarnate (v.) 

8. 
incarnate (v.) 





a. 
fishlike 

b. 
powerless 

c. 
wolflike 

d. 
bring back into a new body or form 

e. 
occurrence, or existence, ev-erywhere 

f. 
horselike 

g. 
expert in speech sounds 

h. 
embody; make real; put into 




bodily form 

Do you understand the words? (I) 
1. 
A person of leonine appearance looks like a tiger. 

2. 
Canine habits refers to the habits of dogs. 

3. 
Feline grace means catlike grace. 

4. 
Porcine appearance means woltlike appearance. 

5. 
Vulpine craftiness means foxlike craftiness. 

6. 
Ursine means bearlike. 


1. Nostalgic feelings refer to a longing for past experiences. 
8. 
Cacophonous music is pleasant and sweet. 

9. 
An elephant is a carnivore. 

10. 
Deer are herbivorous. 





TRUE  FALSB  
TRUB  FALSE  
TRUE  FALSE  
TRUE  FALSE  
TRUE  FALSE  
TRUE  FALSE  
TRUE  FALSE  
TRUE  FALSE  
TRUE  FALSE  
TRUE  FALSE  


KEY: 1-F, 2-T, 3-T, 4-F, 5-T, 6-T, 7-T, 8-F, 9-F, 10-T 

Do you understand the words? Ill)  
1.oAn omnivorous reader does very littleo TRUE  FALSE  
reading.o 
 
2.oA voracious eater is gluttonous.o TRUE  FALSE  
3.oTrue omnipotence is unattainable byo TRUE  FALSB  
human beings.o 
 
4.oNo one is omniscient.o TRUE  FALSB  
5.oFear of economic ruin was practicallyo TRUE  FALSE  
omnipresent in the earlyo 
nineteen-thirties.o 
6.oWhen an airplane lands for refueling,o TRUB  FALSE  
the ubiquitous little red gasoline wagono 
comes rolling up.o 
7.oAn author's omnibus contains all hiso TRUE  FALSE  
published writings.o 
 
8.oCarnelian is a deep blue color.o TRUE  FALSE  
9.oCarnality is much respected in ao TRUE  FALSE  
purita正calosociety.o 
10.oThere is considerable carnage in war.o TRUE  FALSE  
11.oA surreptitious glance is meant to beo TRUE  FALSE  
conspicuous.o 
12.oA person who is evil incarnate is ao TRUE  FALSE  
vicious character.o 

KEY: 1-F, 2-T, 3...:.T, 4-T, 5-T, 6-T, 7-T, ・g_p, 9-F, 10-T, 11-F, 12-T 

Can you recall the words? 
l--adverbs 1-2. secretly (two forms)o

3.oin a harsh and noisy mannero





II一nouns 
1. greediness 1. V. 
2. unlimited power 

3. infinite knowledge 3. 0. 
a gathering of all things
4. 
S.7.8. P9. 
5. lechery; indulgence in fleshly 5. C 
pleasures 6. slaughter 6. 
7. stealthiness; secretiveness 
8. harsh sound 
9. science of speech sounds 
10. a return to life in new form 10. R 

KEY: 1-voracity, 2-omnipotence, 3-omniscience, 4-omnibus, 5-camality, 6--carnage, 7-surreptitiousness, 8-cacophony, 9-phonetics, 10-reincamation 
Ill一adjectives 
1. Iionlike 
2. doglike 
3. catlike 
4. cowlike 
5. foxlike 
6. bearlike 
7. homesick 
8. grating in sound 
9. meat-eating 
10. grass-eating 





KEY: 1-leonine, 2-canine, 3-feline, 4-bovine, 5-vulpine, 6-ur-sine, ?-nostalgic, 8--cacophonous, 9--carnivorous, 10-her-bivorous, 11-omnivorous, 12-voracious, 13-incamate 
IV. moreadjectives  
1. all-powerful  1. 0.  
2. all-knowing  2. 0.  
3. presentorexisting everywhere  3. 0  
4. found everywhere  4. U.  
5. lewd, lascivious, lecherous  5.  
6. secret  6.  

KEY: 1-omnipotent, 2-omniscient, 3-omnipresent, 4-ubiqui-tous, .mal, 6--clandestine 
V. final mop－叩 
1. wolflike 1. 2. horselike 2. 
3. fishlike 
4. referringtospeech sounds 
5. expert in speech sounds 
6. powerless 7-8. existence everywhere 

9. to bring backintoanother body orform 





10.eto embody, make real, or put 10. into bodily forme

CHAPTER REVI即 

A. ・oo you recognize the words?e

1.eUtter want:e
(a)eaflluence, (b) opulence, (c) penurye

2.eExperienced secondhand:e
(a)eephemeral, (b) vicarious, (c) evanescente
3. Inoffensive circumlocution: 
(a) badinage, (b) pers诅age,e(c) euphemisme
4.eHomesick:e
(a)enostalgic, (b) bromide, (c) clandestinee


5. Meat-eating:一e(a)eherbivorous, (b) voracious, (c) carnivorouse
6. Stingy:e
(a)eindigent, (b) parsimonious, (c) opulente
7.eExtreme:financial need:e
(a)edestitution, (b) affluence, (c) parsimonye
8.eGreat and increasing wealth: 

(a) penuriousness, (b) affiuence; (c) omnipresencee
9.eRemaining for a short time:e
(a)eeuphemistic, (b) evanescent, (c) eulogistice
10.eSweet一sounding:e
(a) euphonious, (b) cacophonous, (c) euphorice
11. Praise glowingly:e
(a) evanesce, (b) eulogize, (c) reincarnatee
12.eSense of physical well-being:e
(a)eeuthanasia, (b) euphoria, (c) persiflagee





435 



13.aHackneyed expression:a

(a)aanodyne, (b) badinage, (c) clichea
14.acatlike:a
(a)aleonine, (b) feline, (c) caninea
15.a・ Bearlike:a
(a)avulpine, (b) ursine, (c) porcinea
16.aAll-knowing:a
(a)aomnipotent, (b) omniscient, (c) omnipresenta
17.aFound everywhere:a(a)ubiq咄ous,(b) omnivorous, (c) omnibusa
18.aDestruction:a
(a)acarnage, (b) carnality, (c) reincarnationa

19.aStealthy:a
(a)avoracious, (b) surreptitious, (c) incarnatea

KEY: 1-c,2-b, 3-c,4-a, 5-c,6-b, 7-a, 8-b, 9-b,10-a, 11-b, 
12-b,13-c,14-b, 15-b,16-b, 17-a,18-a,19-ba
ROOT MEANING EXAMPLE 
1.penur比a
penury 
2.afluoaaffluent 
3.aopulentusawealthy 
4.aephemeraaephemeral 

S.avanescoaevanescent 
6.aphemeaeuphemism 
1.aphoneaphonetics 
8.alogosaeulogy 
9.t加natosa
euthanasia 


10.aplatysaplatitude, platypus 
11.aodyneaanodyne 
12.aleoaleonine 
13.afelisafeline 
14.aporcusaporcine -15. Canisacanine 


16.avulpusavulpine ・a





11.elupuselupine．
18.eequuseeqwne 
19.episcisepiscine 
20.enostosenostalgia 
21.ealgosenostalgic 
22.ekakosecacophonous 

23.xylon24.carms carruvorous
,．25.voroxylophone ．omnivorous 
26.herba21.omnisherbivorous 
omnipotent 
28.epotens, potentiseimpotent 
29.escienseomniscience 
30.eubiqueeubiquitous 
31.evale/ecarnival 
32.eclameclandestine 

KEY: 1一want,eneediness; 2-to flow, 3-wealthy, 4-dayfl.y, 5-to vanish, 6-voice, 7-sound; 8-word, speech, 9-death, 10-fiat, broad, 11-pain, 12-lioil, 13--cat, 14-pig, 15-dog, 16-fox, 17一wolf;e18-horse, 19-fish, 20-a return, 21.:..pain,e22-bad, harsh, ugly, 23-wood, 24-flesh, 25-to devour,e26-herb, 27...;.all, 28-powerful, 29-knowing, 30-every-

TEASER QUESTIONS FOR THE AMATEUR ETY从OLOGIST 
1.eAmerican poet William Cullen Bryant wrote a poem in 1811ecalled Tha血topsis.eYou are familiar with both roots in the word. Can you figure out the meaning? 
2.eIf you wanted to coin a word for the study or science ofed纽thearid ・ dying, what would ・ you ・come up ・ with?e
3.ePheme, as you. know from euphe呻m,emeans voice. Thiseroot derives from.'.a Greek v..erbp加吧toespeak, which, as'ittrav-




eled through Latin, Old French, and Middle English, finally took on the spelling phet-, phec-, or phe乒． Andeyou recall that the Greek prefix pro-means beforehand or ahead (as in prognosi斗 prologue, etc.). Can you now combine elements to form a word meaning: 
(a)eto say beforehand; to foretell (an occurrence beforee

4.eCan you combine.a Latin prefix and root to form words ofethe same meaning? 
(a)eto foretell:e

5.eAn eminent psychoanalyst,瓦chardeKarpe of Connecticut,ebas coined the term nostopathy (nos-TOP'今thee)efor an emo-tional disorder he diagnosed among a number of his patients who were returning veterans of World War II and of the Korean and Vietnam wars. You know both roots in由eeword. Can you figure 

6.eCoin a word that means:e
(a)ethe killing of foxes:e
(b)ethe killing of wolves:e
(d)ethe killing of bears:e


7.Fi即reout皿adjectiveethat means:(a)醮－eating:e(.) insect-e忒ing:
g．谓盯e严everew叩tieredewhether the C.ary Islands were 一血邮巨恤，root啊s,d哼？Theyewere. Large, wild 

金_扣面怍d泊e窜纽．氏嘘y吵吨巴seal幻 aboundedethere. 害官蛉cal印


or powerful; to augment the effect of another drug. Can you figure out what this verb would be? 

(Answers in Chapter 18) 


GETTING USED TO NEW WORDS 


Reference has been made, in previous chapters, to the intimate relationship between reading and vocabulary building. Good boo比o-and the better magazines will not only acquaint you with a host ofonew -ideas (and, therefore, new words, since every word is theoverbalization of an idea), but also will help you gain a more com-plete and a richer understanding of the hundreds of words you 
areo

sufficient amount of stimulating reading―and that means, at mini-
learning through your work in this book. If you have been doing a mum, several magazines a week and at least three books of non-fiction 
a month一youohave been meeting, constantly, over and over again, the new words you have been learning in these pages. Every such encounter is like seeing an old friend in a new place.oYou know how much better you understand your friends whenoyou have a chance to see them react to new situations; similarly,oyou will gain a much deeper understanding of the friends youohave been making among words as you see them in different <:on-texts and in different pla.es.o


My recommendations in the past have been of non-fiction titles,o
but novels too are a rich source of additions to your vocabu-lary―provided you stay alert to the new words you will inevitablymeet in reading novels.The natural temptation, when you encounter a brand-new wordin a novel, :is to ignore it-the lines of the plot are perfectly clearoeven ifom皿yoof the au血or'sowords are not. I want to counsel strongly that you resist the temptation to ig-nore the unfamiliar words you may meet in your novel reading:oresist it with every ounce of your energy, for only by such resist-ance can you keep building your vocabulary as you read.oWhat should you do? Don't rush to a dictionary, don't botherounderlining the word, don't keep long lists of words that you will eventually look up en masse-these activities are likely to becomeo



439 





painful and you will not continue them for any great length of time. 
Instead, do something quite simple-and very effective. 
When you meet a new word, underline it with a mental pencil. That is, pause for a second and attempt to figure out its meaning fromoits use in the sentence or from its etymological root orprefix, if it contains one you have studied. Make a mental note of it, say it aloud once or twice-and then go on reading. 

That's all there is to it. What you are doing, of course, is developing the same type of mind-set toward the new word that you have developed toward the words you have studied in this book. And the results, of course, will be the same一youowill begin 
to notice the word occurring again and again in other reading you do, and finally, having seen it in a number of varying contexts, you will begin to get enough of its connotation and flavor to come to a fairly accurate understanding of its meaning. In this way you win be developing alertness not only to the words you have stud-ied in this book, but to all expressive and meaningful words. And your vocabulary will keep growing. 
But of .ourse that will happen only if you keep reading. 
I do not wish to recommend any particular novels or novelists, since the type of fiction one enjoys is a very personal matter. You doubtless know the kind of story you like―mystery, science fiction, spy, adventure, historical, political, romantic, Western, bi-ographical, one or all of the above. Or you may be entranced by novels of ideas, of sexual prowess, of fantasy, of life in different segments of society from your own. No matter. Find the kind of novel or novelist you enjoy by browsing in the public library or among the thousands of titles in bookstores that have a rich as-sortment of paperbacks as well as hardbacks. 


And then read! And keep on the alert for new words! You will 
find them by the hundreds and thousands. Bear in mind: people 
with rich vocabularies have been reading omnivorou.rly, vora-
ciously, since childhood一includingothe ingredients listed in small 
print on bread wrappers and cereal boxes. 

(End of Session 41) 







The spelling of English words is archaic, it's confusing, it's need-lessly complicated, and, if you have a sense of humor, it's down-right comical. In fact, any insulting epithet you might wish to 
level against ・our weird methods of putting letters together to form words would probably be justified一buteit's our spelling, and we're 
stuck with it. 

How completely stuck we are is illustrated by a somewhat Judi一ecrous・ event that goes back to 1906, and that cost philanthropist Andrew Carnegie $75,000. 


Working under a five-year grant of funds from Carnegie, and headed by the esteemed scholar Brander Matthews, the Simplified Spelling Board published in that year a number of recom-mendations for bringing some small semblance of order out of the great chaos of English spelling. Their suLestionseaffected a mere three hundred words out of the half niillion then in the language. Here are a few examples, to give you a general idea: 



SPELLING 
THEN CURRENT SIMPLIFIED SPELLING mediaeval medieval doubt dout debtor dettor head hed though tho 




through thru laugh la/ tough tuf knife nife theatre theater centre center phantom fantom 
These revisions seemed eminently sensible to no less a per-sonage than the then President of the United. States, Theodore Roosevelt. So delighted was he with the new garb in which these three hundred words could be clothed that he immediately or-dered that all government documents be printed in simplified spelling. And the result? Such a howl went up from the good citi-zens of the republic, from the nation's editors and schoolteachers and businessmen, that the issue was finally debated in the halls of Congress. Almost to a man, senators and representatives stood opposed to the plan. Teddy. Roosevelt, as you have doubtless heard, was a stubborn fellow一butewhen Congress threatened to hold up the W五teeHouse stationery appropriation unless the Pres-ident backed down, Teddy rescinded the order. Roosevelt ran for re-election some time later, and lost. That his attitude toward spelling contributed to his defeat is of course highly doubtful― nevertheless an opposition New York newspaper, the day the re-turns were in, malicioui;ly commented on the outgoing incumbent in a one-word simplified-spelling .itorial: "IBRUI" 
Roosevelt was not the first President to be justifiably outraged by our ridiculous orthography. Over a'hundred years ago, when Andrew Jackson was twitted on his poor speUing, he is supposed to have made this characteristic reply, "Wen, sir, it is a damned poor mind that cannot think of more than one way to speI1 a word!" And according to one apocryphal version, it was Jackson's odd spelling that gave birth to the expression "okay." Jackson thought, so goes the story, that "all correct" was spelled "or] kor-rect," and he used O.K. as the abbreviation for these words when he approved state papers. 
Many years ago, the British playwright George_ Bernard Shaw offered a dramatic proposal for reducing England's taxes. Just 







eliminate unnecessary letters from our unwieldy spelling, he said, and you'll save enough money in paper and printing to cut every-one's tax rate in half. Maybe it would work, but it's never been put to the test-and the way things look now, it never will be. Current. practice more and more 
holds spelling exactly where it is, bad though it may be. It is a scientific law of language that if enough people make a''mistake," the "mistake" becomes accepta-ble usage. That law applies to pronunciation, to grammar,. to word meanings, but not to spelling. Maybe it's because of our misbe-gotten faith in, and worship of, the p血tedoword-maybe it's be-cause written language tends to be static, while spoken language constantly changes. Whatever the cause, spelling today success-fully resists every logical effort at reform. "English 
spelling/'said Thorstein Veblen, "satisfies.all the requirements of the canons of 

reputability under the law of conspicuous waste. It is archaic, cumbrous, and ineffective." Perfectly true. Notwithstanding, it's here to stay. 
Your most erudite 
friend doubtless misspells the name of the Hawaiian guitar. I asked half a dozen members of the English de-partment of a large college to spell the word―without exception they responded with ukelele. Yet 
the only accepted form 
is ukulele. 
Judging from my experience with my classes at Rio Hondo Col-lege, half the population of the country must think the word is spelled alright. Seventy-five per cent of the members of my classes can't spell embarrassing or coolly. People・ will go on misspelling these four words, but the authorized spellings will remain impervi-ous to change. 
Well, you know ・the one about Mohammed and the mountain. Though it's true that we have modernized spelling to a micro-scopic extent in the last eighty years (traveler, center, theater, me-dieval, 
labor, and 
honor, for example, have pretty much replaced traveller, centre, theatre, mediaeval, labour, and honour), still the resistance to change has not observably weakened. If spelling won't change, as it probably won't, those of us who consider our-selves poor spellers will have to. We.'IIjust have to get up and go to the mountain. 
Is it hard to・ become 
a good speller? I have demonstrated over and over again in my classes that anyone of normal intelligence 





and average educational background can become a good speller in 
very little time. 

What makes the task so easy? 
First-investigations have proved that 95 per cent of the 
spelling errors that educated people m吐eeoccur in just one bun-dred words. Not only do we all misspell the same words-but we misspell them in about the same way. 
Second-correct spelling relies exclusively on memory, and the most effective way to train memory is by means of association or, to use the technical term, mnemonics. 
If you fancy yourself an imperfect or even a terrible speller, the chances are very great that you've developed a complex solely be-cause you misspell some or all of the hundred 
words with which this Intermission deals. When you have conquered this single list, and I shall immediately proceed to demonstrate how easy it is, by 
means of mnemonics, to do so, 95 per cent of your spelling difficulties will in all lilcelihood vanish. 
Let us start with twenty-five words from the list. In the first col-umn you will.find the correct spelling of each, and in the second col皿m the simple mnemonic that will forevermore fix that correct spelling in your memory. 

CORRECT SPELLING 
MNEMONIC 
1.eall righteTwo words, no matter what it means. Keep in mind that it's the opposite of all wrong. 
2.ecoollye
Of course you can spell cool-simply add the adverbial ending-ly. 
3.esupersedeeThis is the only word in the language ending.in-sede (the only one, mind you-there isn't a single other one so spelled). 
4.esucceedeThe only three words in the entire 
5.eproceedelanguage ending in-ceed. When you 
6.eexceedethink of the three words in the order given here, the initial letters form the beginning of SPEED. 









7.ecede, precede,erecede, etc.e
8.eproceduree
9.estationerye
10.estationarye
11.erecommende
12.eseparatee
13.ecomparativee
14.eecstasye
15. analyzee
16.eparalyzee
17.erepetitione
18.eirritablee
19.einimitablee
20.eabsencee
21.esuperintendente
22.econsciencee
23.eanointe
24.eridiculouse
25.edespaire





All other words with a similar-sound-
ing final syllable end in-cede. One of the double e's of proceed moves to the end in the noun form, procedure. 
This is the word that means paper, 
and notice the -er in paper. In this spelling, the words means standing, and notice the -a in stand. 

Commend, which we all spell correctly, plus the prefix re-. 

Look for a rat in both words. 

to汀(sigh)ewith ecstasy 
The only two.non-technical words in the whole language ending in -yze. First four letters identical with those 

in the allied form repeat. 

Think of allied forms irritate and imitate. Think of the allied form absent, and 

you will not be tempted to misspell 
it abscence. The superintendent in an apartment house collects the rent-thus you avoid superintendant. Science plus prefix con-. 

Think of an ointment, hence no 
doublen. Think of the allied form ridicule, which we usually spell correctly, thus avoiding rediculous. Again, think of another form一de叩erate--andeso avoid di叩air.


Wh..er or not !e01! h.ve much faith !n your .?elling abil!ty,
.e
_
you will need very little time to conquer the preceding twenty-five 


demons. Spend a few minutes, now, on each of those words in the list that you're doubtful of, and then test your success by means of the exercise below. Perhaps to your astonishment, you will find it easy to make a high score. 
A test of your learning 

Instructions: After studying the preceding list of words, fill ino
the missing letters correctly. 
1.oa....__righto2.oco0-yo
3.osupero
4.osueo
5.oproo
6.oexo
7.opr尸 
8.oproc____cJureo
9.ostation____ry (paper)o
10.ostation____ry (still)o
11.osep_rateo
12.ocompar___tiveo13.ore.__0-endo


14.oecsta____yo
15.oanat.__eo
16.oparaL__eo
17.orep-titiono
18.oirriL--bleo
19.oinimiL--bleo
20.oah-enceo
21.osuperintencL__nto
22.ocononce 
23.oa,___ointo
24.25.o
r.___diculousd、pairo




Mere repetitious drill is of no value in learning to spell a word correctly. You've probably heard the one about the youngster who was kept after school because he was in the habit of using the ungrammatical expression "I have went." Miss X was going to cure her pupil, even if it required drastic measures. So she ordered him to write "I have gone" one thousand times. "Just leave your work on my desk before you go home," she said, "and I'll find it when I come in tomorrow morning." Well, there were twenty pages of neat script on her desk next morning, one thousand lines of "I have gone's," and on the last sheet was a note from the child. "Dear Teacher," it read, "I have done the work and I have went home." If this didn't actually happen, it logically could have, for in any drill, if the mind is not actively engaged, no learning will result. If you drive a car, or sew, or do any familiar and repe-titious manual work, you know how your hands can carry on an 


446 

accustomed task while your mind is far away. And if you hope to learn to spell by filling pages with a word, stop wasting your time. All you'll get for your trouble is writer's cramp. 
The only way to learn to spell those words that now plague you is to devise a mnemo戌cefor each one. 
li you are never quite sure whether it's indispe九ribleeor indis-pensable, you can spell it out one hundred, one thousand, or one million times-and the next time you have occasion to write it in a sentence, you'll still wonder whether to end it with -ible ore-able. But if you say to yourself just once that able people are generally indispensable, that thought will come to you whenever you need to spell the word; in a few seconds you've conquered another spelling demon. By engineering your own mnemonic through a study of the architecture of a troublesome word, you will become so quickly and completely involved with the correct spelling of that word that it will be impossible for you ever to be stumped agam. 


Let us start at once. Below you will find another twenty-five words from the list of one hundred demons, each offered to you in both the correct form and in the popular misspelling. Go through the test quickly, checking off what you consider a proper choice in each case. In that way you will discover which of the twenty-five you would be likely to get caught on. Then devise a personal mnemonic for each word you flunked, writing your ingenious re-suit out in the margin of the page. And don't be alarmed if some of your mnemonics.tum out kind cif silly一theesillier they are the more likely you are to recall tlJem in an emergency. One of my pupils, who could not remember how many l's to put into Iran-quillity (or is it tranquility?), shifted his mind into high gear and came up with this: "In the old days life was more tranquil than tciday, and people wrote with quills instead of fountain pens. Hence-tranquillity!" Another pupil, a 
girl who always chewed her nails over irr函stibleebefore she could decide whether to end it with -ible or-able, suddenly realized that a certain brand of lipstick was called i汀esistible,ethe point being of course that the only vowel in lipstick is i一hence,e-ible/ Silly, aren't they? But they work. Go ahead to the test now; and see how clever-0r silly一youecan be. 





SPELLING TEST 
1. 
a. supprise 

2. 
a. inoculate 

3. 
a. definitely 

4. 
a. priviledge 

5. 
a. incidently 

6. 
a. predictible 

7. 
a. dissipate 

8. 
a. descriminate 

9. 
a. description 

10. 
a. balooil 

11. 
a. occurence 

12. 
a. truely 

13. 
a. arguement 

14. 
a. assistant 

15. 
a. grammer 

16. 
a. parallel 

17. 
a. drunkeness 

18. 
a. suddeness 

19. 
a. embarassment 

20. 
a. weird 

21. 
nronounci

. a. pronounctation 

22. 
a. noticeable 

23. 
a. developement 

24. 
a. vicious 

25. 
a.・ insistent 







b. 
surprise 

b. 
innoculate 

b. 
definately 

b. 
privilege 

b. 
incidentally 

b. 
predictable 

b. 
disippate 

b. 
discriminate 

b. 
discription 

b. 
balloon b; occurrence 

b. 
truly 

b. 
argument 

b. 
asisstant 

b. 
grammar J>. paralell 

b. 
drunkenness 

b. 
suddenness 

b. 
embarrassment 

b. 
wierd 

b. 
pronunciation 

b. 
noticable 

b. 
development 

b. 
viscious 

b. 
insistant 




KEY: 1-b,2-a, 3-a,4-b, 5-b,6-b, 7-a,8-b,9-a, 10-b, 11-b, 12-b,13-b,14-a,15-b,16-a,17-b,18-b,19-b,20-a, 

By now you're well on the way toward developing a definite su-periority complex about your spelling―.hich isn't a half-bad thing,for I've learned,working with my students, that many peo-
448 

pie think they're awful spellers, and have completely lost faith in their ability, solely because they get befuddled over no more than two dozen or so common words that they use over and over againand always misspell. Every other word they spell perfectly, but they still think they're prize boobs in spelling until their self-confidence is restored. So if you're beginning to gain more assur-ance, you're on the right track. The conquest of the one hundred common words most frequently misspelled is not going to assure you that you will always come out top man in a spelling bee, but it's certain to clean up your writing and bolster your ego. 
So far you have worked with fifty of the one hundred spelling demons. Here, now, is the remainder of the list. Test yourself, or have someone who can keep a secret test you, and discover which ones are your Waterloo. Study each one you miss as if it were a problem in engineering. Observe how it's put together and devise whatever association pattern will fix the correct form in yourmind. 
Happy spelling! 
SPELLING DEMONS 
These fifty words complete the list of one hundred words that 
most frequently stump the inexpert spellers: 
1.o
embarrassingo14.odilemma 

2.o
judgment 15.operseverance

3.o
indispensableo16.ountil (but till)o

4.o
disappearo17.otyrannize

5.o
disappointo18. vacillateo

6.o
corroborateo19. oscillateo

7. 
sacrilegiouso20. accommodateo

8. 
tranquillityo21. dilettanteo

9.o
exhilarationo22. changeable

10. 
newsstando23.oaccessibleo

11.o
licenseo24.ofortyo

12. 
irresistibleo25. desirableo

13.o
persistento26. panickyo












27. sei左 
28. leisure 
29. receive 
30. achieve 
31. holiday 
32. existence 
33. pursue 
34. pastime 
35. possesses 
36. professor 
37. category 



3.8. rhythmical 

39. vacuum 
40. benefited 
41. committee 
42. grievous 
43. conscious 
44. plebeian , 
45. tariff 
46. sheriff 
47. connoisseur 
48. necessary 



. toex加ust? 
. to scolds切erely? 
. to deny oneself? 
. to re[Jeat the main points?、~ 
. to be a victim of mental or intellectual stagnation? 
. to pretend? 






SESSION 42 
WORDS symbols of ideas--and we have been learning, discussing, anare d working with words -as they revolve around certain basic concepts. 

Starting with an idea (personality typ邸， doctors,ooccupations, science, lying, actions, speech, insults, .ompliments, etc.), have explored the meanings and uses of ien basic words; then, we working from each word, we have wandered off toward 
any ideas and additional words that a basic word might suggest, or toward any other words built on the same Latin or Greek roots. 
By this natural and logical method, you have been able to make meaningful and lasting coniact with fifty to a hundred or more words in each chapter. And you have discovered, I think, that 
while five isolated words may be difficult to learn in one day, fifty 
to a hundred or more related words are easy to learn in a few-ses-sions. In this session we learn words that tell what's going on, what's 
happening, what people do to each other or to themselves, or what others do to them. 


IDEAS. 

1.ocomplete exhaustiono
You have stayed up all night. And what 
were you doing? flay-ing poker, a very.pleasant way of whiling away time? No. Engag-ing in spme creative activity, lilce writing a short story, planning a political campaign, discussing fascinatin8 questions with friends? No. 
The examples I have offered are exciting or stimulating-as psychologists have disco:vered, -it is not work or effort that causes fatigue, but boredom, frustration, or a similar feeling. 






You have stayed up all night with a very sick husband, wife, child, or dear friend. And despite all your ministrations, the pa-tient.is.sinking. You can see how this long vigil contains all the el-ements. of frustration that contribute to mental, physical, and nervous fatigue. 
And so you are bushed-but completely bushed. Your exbaus-tion is mental, itis physiological, it is emotional. What verb expresses the effect of the night's frustrations on you? 
to enervate 
2.otongue-lashingo
You suddenly see the flashing red light 
as you glance in yourorear-view mirror. It's the middle of the night, yet the police flasher is clear as day--and then you hear the low growl of tlie siren. So you pull over, knowing you were speeding along at 70 on the SS-mile-an-hour-limit freeway-after all, there was not another car in sight on the deserted stretch of road you were traveling. 
The cop is pleasant, courteous, smiling; merely asks for your driver's license and registration; even says "Please." Feeling guilty and stupid, you become irritated. So what do you do? 
You lash out at the officer with all the verbal vituperation welling up in you from your self-anger. You scold him harshly for not spending his time looking for violent criminals instead of bar. assing innocent motorists; you call into question his honesty, his ambition, his fairness, even his ancestry. To no avail, of course-you stare at the traffic ticket morosely as,the police cruiser pulls away. 

What verb describes how you reacted? 







3.oaltruistico

Phyllis is selffess and self-sacrificing. Her husband's needs andodesires come first--even when they conflict with her own. Clothes for her two daughters are her main concern―eve11 if she has to 



453 
wear a seven-year-old coat and outmoded dresses so that Paula 
and Evelyn can look smart and trim. At the dinner table, she heaps everyone's plate―while she herself often goes without. 
Phyllis will deny herself, will scrimp and save--all to the end that she may offer her husband and children the luxuries that her low self-esteem does not pern廿teher to give herself. 
What verb expresses what Phyllis does? 
to self-abnegate 
4.erepetitione
You have delivered a Jong, complicated lecture to your class,eand now, to make sure that they will remember the important points. you restate the key ideas, the main thoughts. You offer, in short, a kind of brief summary, step by step, on让ttingeall extrane-ous details. 
What verb best describes what you do? 
to recapitulate 
5.eno joie de vivree
Perhaps you wake up some gloomy Monday morning (why is itethat Monday is always the worst day of the week?) and begin to think of ・the waste of the last five years. Intellectually, there has been no progress―you've read scarcely half a dozen books, haven't made one new, exciting friend, haven't had a startling or unusual thought. Economically, things are no better―same old debts to meet, same old hundred dollars in the bank, same old job, same old routine of the eight-to-five workdays, the tuna fish or chicken salad sandwich for lunch, the same dreary ride home. What a life! No change, nothing but routine, sameness, monotony―and for what? (By now you'd better get up-this type of think-ing never leads anywhere, as you've long since learned.) 
What verb describes how you think you live? 
to vegetate 


6. pretenseo

Your neighbor, Mrs. Brown, pops in without invitation to telloyou of her latest troubles with (a) her therapist, (b) her hairdresser, (c) her husband, 
(d) her children, and/or (e) her gynecologist. 

Since Florence Brown is dull to the point of ennui, and anyway you have a desk piled high with worlc you were planning to light into, you find it difficult to concentrate on what she is saying. However, you do not wish to offend her by sending her packing, or even by appearing to be uninterested, so you pretend rapt at-tention, nodding wisely at what you hope are the right places. 
What verb describes this feigning of interest? 

to simulate 
7. slight hint, no.more 
You are an author and are discussing with your editor the pos-sible avenues of publicity and advertising for your new book. At one point in the conversation the editor makes several statements which might一oromight not一beoconstrued to mean that the com-pany is going to promote the book heavily. For example,・ "If we put some real money behind this, we might sell a few copies," or "I wonder if it would be a good idea to get you on a few talk shows..." No unequivocal commitments, no clear-cut promises, only the slight and oblique mention of possibilities. 
What verb expresses what the editor is doing? 

to intimate 
8. helpful 

Aspirin doesn't cure any diseases. Yet this popular and inex-pensive drug is universally used to lighten and relieve various un-・ pleasant symptoms o_f disease: aches and pains, fever, inflamma-tions, etc. 
What verb expresses the action of aspirin? 

to alleviate 



9.ewhen the bell tollse

John Donne's lines (made famous by Ernest Hemingway):e
No man is an Iland, intire of it selfe; every man is a peece of the Continent, a part of the maine; if a Clod bee washed away七yethe Sea, Europe is the lesse, as well as if a Promon-torie were, as well as if a Mannor of thy friends or of thine owne were,・ any ma心 deathediminishes me, because I am in-volved in Mankinde; And therefore never send to know for whom the bell tolls; It tolls for thee. 

are truer than you may think; any person who views another's pain with complete detachment or indifference is shutting off im-portant feelings. 

When people have suffered a bereavement (as through death) ; when they have been wounded by life or by friends; then is the time they most need to feel that they are not alone, that you share their misery with them even if you cannot directly alleviate their sorrow. Your sympathy and compassion are, of course, alleviation enough. 
What verb signifies this vicarious sharing of sorrow with some-one who directly suffers? 

to commiserate 


1 O. when two men propose 

Should you marry 
John or George? (You're strongly and equally attracted to both.) John is handsome, ・virile; tender; G切rgeeis stable, reliable, dependable, always there when you need him. George loves you deeply; John is more exciting. You decide on John, naturally. 

But wait―marrying John would mean giving up George, and with George you always know where you stand; he's like the Rock of Gibraltar (and sometimes almost as dull). So you change your mind-it's George, on more mature reflection. 
But how happy can you be with a husband who is not exciting? Maybe John would be best after all.... 


The pendulum swings back and forth一youecannot make up your mind and stick to it. (You fail to realize that your indecision proves that you don't want to inarry either one, or perhaps don't want to give either one up, or possibly don't even want to get mar-ried.) First it's John, then it's George, then -back to John, then George again. Which is it, which is it? 
What-verb describes your pendulum-like indecision? 


USING THE WORDS 

Can you pronounce the words? 
1.eenervatee
2.ecastigatee
3.eself-abnegatee
4. recapitulate 
5.evegetate 
6.esimulatee


1.eintimatee
8.ealleviatee
9. commiseratee

10.evacillatee



Can you work with the words? 
1. enervatee
2. castigatee
3.eself-abnegatee
4. recapitulatee
5.evegetatee
6. simulatee
7. intimatee
8.ealleviatee



to vacillate 


EN勺r-vayt't'e
KAS'－氐gayself-AB'-n今gayt'ree'－氐PICH屯ayt'VEJ'-a-tayt' SIM'-yQ-layt' 
IN＇一tQ-mayt'
吐EE'-vee-ayt'eh-MIZ'-Q-rayt VAS'今layte

a.edeny oneselfe
b.estagnatee
c.esuggest; hinte
d.esympathizee
e.ewavere

f.eexhausteg.lessen;廿ghtene
h. stirnmarize 







9.ocommi沈rateoi pretend 
10.ovacillateoj.ocensure; scold; slash at ver-

4-h,5-b, 6-i, 7--c,8-g,9-d,10-e 


Do you understand the words? Ill 

1.oShould you feel enervated after a goodonight's sleep?o
2.oDo motorists who have been caughtospeeding sometimes start castigating theotraffic officer?o
3.oPo people who are completelyoself-abnegating say''No!" to theironeeds and desires?o
4.oWhen you recapitulate, do you coveronew material?o
5.oDo people possessed of joie de vivreusually feel that they血：vegetating?o
6.oWhen you simulate alertness, do youopurposely act somnolent?o
7.oWhen you intimate, do you make aodirect statement?o
8.oDoes aspirin often have an all幻iatingoeffect on pain?o
9.oDo we naturally commiserate withopeople who have suffered aobereavement?o
10.oDo decisive people often vacillate?o









YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  





Do you understand the words? (II) 
1. enervated---exhilarated SAME OPPOSITE 
2. castigate-praise 
OPPOSITE 

3. self-abnegate-deny oneself 
OPPOSITE 

4. recapitulate--summarize 




OPPOSITE 
5. vegetate-stagnate 

OPPOSITE 
6. simulate一pretend 
OPPOSITE 

7. intimate-hint SAME OPPOSITE 
8. alleviate--make worse 
OPPOSITE 

9. commiserate--sympathize 

OPPOSITE 
10. vacillate-decide 
OPPOSITE 
KEY: 1-O,2-0,3-S,4-S,5-S,6-S,7-S,8-0,9-S,10-0 
Can you recall the words? 
1. pretend 
3. sacrifice one's desires 
4. waver 
5. exhaust 

7. summanze 
8. lighten 
9. hint 
10. stagnate 

L234561&90 
VRV
KEY: 1一simulate, 2-castigate, 3-self-abnegate, 4-vacillate, 5-en-
ervate, 6-commiserate, 7-recapitulate, 8-a1leviate, 9.:...inti-mate, 10-vegetate 

(End of Ses泣m42)




SESSION 43 
ORIGINS AND RELATED WORDS 
1.emore than fatiguee
When you are enervated, you feel as if your nerves have beeneripped out-0r so the etymology of the wo.rd indicates. 

Enervate is derived from e一(ex一），out,eand Latin nervus, nerve. Enervation (en'-ar-V A Y'-shan) is not just fatigue, but complete devitalization一physical,eemotional, mental-as if every ounce of the life force has been sapped out, as if the last particle of energy has been drained away. 
Despite its similar appearance to the word energy, enervation is almost a direct antonym. Energy is derived from the Greek prefix en-, in, plus the root ergon, work; erg is the term used in physics for a unit of work or energy. Synergism (SIN＇一ar-jiz-am)-theeprefix syn-, together or with, plus ergon一isethe process by which two or more substances or drugs, by working together, produce a greater effect in combination than the sum total of their individual effects. 

Alcohol, for example, is a depressant. So are barbiturates and other soporifics. Alcohol and barbiturates work synergistically (sin'-ar-JIS'-tik'-lee)-the effect of each is increased by 
the other if the two are taken together. 
So if you're drinking, don't take a sleeping pill-0r if you must take a pill for your insomnia, don't drink―the combination, if not lethal, will do more to you than you may want done! 
Synergy (SIN＇一证jee)e. by the way
, is an alternate form of ”,nergism. 
2.everbal punishmente

Castigate is derived from a.Latin verb meaning to punish,・ in present-day usage, the v'erb generally refers 
to verbal punishment, 




usually harsh and severe. It is somewhat synonymous with scold, criticize, rebuke, censure, reprimand, or berate, but much stronger than any of these--rail at, rant at, slash at, lash out at, or tongue-lash is a much closer synonym. When candidates for office c岱 tigate their opponents, they do not mince words. 

n
Can you constmct the noueform of castigate? 

3.esaying "Nol" to oneselfe

Abnegate is derived from Latin 
ab-, away (as in absent), plusenego, to deny-self-abnegation (ab'－呤GAY'-shan),ethen, is self-denial. Nego itself is a contraction of Latin neg-, not, no, and aio, I say; to be self-abnegating is to say "Nol" to what you want, as jf some inner censor were at work whispering,''No, you can't have that, you can't do that, you don't deserve that, you're not good enough for that..... " 

To negate (n今GA吓）iseto deny the truth or existence of, as in "The atheist negates God"; or, by extension, to destroy by w
orking against,邸 in,e"His indulgence in expensive hobbiese
you write the noun form of the verb negate? Negative and negativity obviously spring from the same source as negate. 

4.eheads and headingse

Latin caput, capitis means head. The captain is the head of anyegroup; the capital is the "head city" of a state or nation; and to decapitate (dee-KAP'仑ta邓）iseto chop off someone's head, a popular activity during the French Revolution after the guillotine was invented. Write the noun form of decapitate: 
Latin capitulum is a little head, or, by extension, the heading, or title, of a chapter. So when you recapitulate, you go through the chapter headings again (re-), etymologically speaking, or you summarize or review the main points. 
Remembering how the noun and adjective forms are derived 
461 










from adulate (Chapter 9), can you write the required forms of re-capitulate? 
NOUN: 
ADJECTIVE: 
When. you capitulate (ka-PICH匀ayt'),aetymologically you arrange in headings, or, as. the meaning of the verb naturally evolved, you arrange conditions of surrender, as when an army 
by further natural extension, you stop resisting and give capitulates to the enemy forces under prearranged conditions; or, 
"He realized there was no longer any point in resisting her ad-vances, so he reluctantly capitulated." Can you write the noun form of capitulate? 
5.amere vegetablesa
Vegetable is from Latin vegeto, to live and grow, which is whatavegetables do一butathat's all they do, so to vegetate, is, by impli-cation, to do no more than stay alive, stuck in a rut, leading an inactive, unstimulating, emotionally and intellectual_ly stagnant existence. Vegetation (vej'-:i-TAY'-sh:in) is any dull, passive, stag-nant existence; also any plant life, as the thick vegetation of a 

REVIEW OF ETYMOLOGY PREFIX, ROOT, 
SUFFI. MEANING 

nerve 
in work 




. 10. caput, capitis head 
11.ede-. negative prefix 
12.ecapitulum little head, chapter heading 
13. re-

agam 14.-0ryeadjective suffix 

15.evegetoeto live and grow 

USING THE WORDS 

Can you pronounce the words? 
1. 
2. 3. 

4. 
5. castigatione
6. self-abnegatione


1. negatee
8. negatione
9. decapitatee
10.edecapitaiione
11.erecapitulatione
12. recapitulatory 
13.ecapitulate 
14.ecapitulation 



Can you work with the words? 
1. enervation 
2.esynergism, synergye
3. castigatione
4.eself-abnegatione
5.enegatione
6.edecapitatione




en'-ar-V A Y'-shan SIN'-ar-jiz-:;im SIN'-ar-jee sin'-ar-JIS'-tik kas'－\GAY'-shaneself-ab'-na-GAY'-shan na-GAYT' n今GAY'-shandee-KAP宅tayt'edee-kap'-a-TA Y'-shan ree-ka-pich'心－LAY'-shane


ree-ka-PICH'-a-fa-tawr'-ee k千PICH'-a-layt'eka-pich'仑LAY'-shane


a. tongue-lashinge
b. denial; destructione
c.ea lopping off of Qne's heade
d.esummary; review of mainepointse
e.eself-deniale
f.eutter exhaustion; mental,eemotional, and physical draine








KEY: 1-f, 2-h, 3-a,4-e,5-b，k,7 -d，8-g 

KEY: 1-0, 2-0，3-S,4-0,5-0,6-S, 7-S,8 -0 


Do you understand the words? 
1. enervating―refreshing 
2. synergistic-neutralizing 
―

3. castigation scolding
4. self-abnegation--egoism 
5. negate-accept 
6. decapitate-behead 
7. recapitulatory―summarizing 
8. capitulate-resist 



SAME  OPPOSITE  
SAME  OPPOSITE  
SAME  OPPOSITE  
SAME  OPPOSITE  
SAME  OPPOSITE  
SAME  OPPOSITE  
SAME  OPPOSITE  
SAME  OPPOSITE  


Can you recall the words? 
1. to give in 
2. working together for greater effect (adj.) 
3. total fatigue 
4. for the purpose of summarizing 


or review (adj.) 5.self-de正al 

6. deny; render ineffective; nullify 

7. process by which two or more substances produce a greater effect than the sum of the individual effects 
8. to cut off the head of 


1. C. 
7. 
8. D. 


KEY: 1-capitulate, 2一synergistic,e3-enervation, 4-recapitulatory, 5一self-abnegation,e6-negate, 7-synergism or synergy, 

(End of Session 43) 

SESSION 44 


ORIGINS AND RELATED WORDS 


1.enot the real McCoye


Simulate is from Latin simulo, to copy; and simulo itself derivesefrom the Latin adjectives similis, like or similar. 
Simulation (sim＇.y今LAY'-shan),ethen, is copying the real thing, pretending to be the genuine article by taking on a similar appearance. The simulation of joy is quite a feat when you really feel depressed; 

Genuine pearls grow inside oysters; simulated pearls are syn-thetic, but look like the ones from oysters.(Rub a pearl against your teeth to tell the difference--,-the natural pearl feels gritty.) So the frequent advertisement of an inexpensive necklace made of "genuine simulated pearls" can fool you if you don't know the word―you're being offered a genuine fake, 
Dissimulation (d妇血'-ya-LAY'-shan)eis something else! When you dissimulate (d今血'-y今layt'),eyou hide your true feelings by making a pretense of opposite feelings.(Then again, maybe it's not-・something completely else!) 

Sycophants are great dissimulators-they may feel contempt, 



465 
but show admiration; they may feel negative, but express abso-lutely positive agreement. 
A close synonym of dissimulate is dissemble (d今SEM'-b:il),owhich also is to hide true feelings by pretending the opposite; or, additionally, to conceal facts, 
or one's true intentions, by decep-tion; or, still further additionally, to pretend ignorance of facts you'd rather not admit, when, indeed, you're fully aware of them. 
The noun is dissemblance (d:i-SEM'-bl:ins). In dissimulate and dissemble, the negative prefix dis-acts largely to make both words pejorative. 
2. hints and helpso
The verb intimate is from Latin intimus, innermost, the sameoroot from which the adjective intimate (IN'七mat)oand its noun intimacy (lN'-ta-ma-see) are derived; but the relationship is only in etymology, not in meaning. An intimation (in'－氐MAY'-shan)ocontains a significance buried deep in the innermost core, only a hint showing. As you grow older, you begin to have intimations that you are mortal; when someone^imsoao.45 at you, or when a truck comes ro.ring down at you as you drive absent-mindedly against a red light through an intersection, you are suddenly very 
. sure that you are mortal. Alleviate is a combination of Latin levis, light (not heavy), the prefix ad-, to, and the verb suffix. (Ad-changes to al-before a root starting with l-.) If something alleviates your pain, ・it makes your pain lighter for you; if I alleviate your sadness, I make it lighter to bear; and if you need some alleviation（今lee'-vee-AY'-sh;m) 
of your prob-lems, you need them made lighter and less burdensome. To qUevi-ate is to relieve only temporarily, not to cure or do away with. (Relieve is also from Levis, plus re一，again-toomake light or easy again.) The adjective form of alleviate is alleviative（今LEE'-vee-a沪tiv)-aspirinois an alleviative drug. Anything light will rise--so from the prefix e一 (ex一），out,oplus levis, we can construct the verb elevate, etymologically, to raise out, or, actually, raise up, as to elevate one's spirits, raise them up, make them lighter; or elevate someone to a higher position, which is what an elevator does. 





Have you ever seen a performance of magic in which a person or an object apparently rises in the. air as 
if floating? That's levita-tion (lev'-a-TAY'-shan)一risingethrough no visible means. (I've watched it a dozen times and never could figure it out!) The verb, to・so rise，让levitatee( 
And how about levity (LEV'今tee)?That's lightness too, but of a different sort-lightness in the sense of frivolity,:flippancy, joking, or lack of seriousness. especially when solemnity, dignity, or formality is required or more l\ppropriate, as in "tones of lev-ity," or as in,''Levity is out of place at a funeral, in a house of worship, at the swearing-in ceremonies of a President or Supreme Court Justice," or as in, "Okay, enough levity-now let's get down to business!" 
3.esharing someone's miserye
Latin miser, wretched, the prefix con-(which, as you know, be-comes com-before a root beginning with m-), together or with, and the verb suffix-ate are the building blocks from which com-miserate is. constructed. "I commiseriite with you," then, means, "I am wretched together with you一Ieshare your misery." The noun form? 
Miser，呻erly，呻erable,emisery all come from the same root. 

4.eswing and swaye
Vacillate-note the single c, double l-derives from Latinevacillo, to swing back and forth. The noun form?_ 


People who. swing back and forth in indecision, who are irreso-Jute, who can, unfortunately, see both, or even three or four, sides of every question, and so have difficulty making up their minds, are vacillato疗 (VAS'+I今tawr'-ee).eThey are also, usually, am-bivalent (am-BIV＇心血t)-theyehave con伍ctingeand 
simulta-neous emotions about the same person or thing; or they want to go but they also want to stay; or they love something, but theybate it too. The noun is ambivalence (am-BlV＇-a-le四）－fromeambi both. (Remember .ambivert and ambidextro匹 frome・chap-ter 3?) 





Ambivalence has best been defined (perhaps by Henny Young-man-if he didn't say it first, he should have) as watching your mother-in-,law drive over a cliff in your new Cadillac. 

To vacillate is to swing mentally or emotionally. To sway back and forth physically is oscillate--again note the double l―(OS'-a-layt'), from Latin oscillum, a swing. A pendulum oscillates, the arm of a metronome oscillates, and people who've had much too 


REVIEW OF ETV:从OLOGYo

PREFIX, ROOT, SUFFIX MEANING ENGLISH WORD 
1.osimulooto copy 
2.osimilisolike, siJnilar 
3.odis-pejorative prefix 
4.
ad-(al一）oto, towanl 

5.olevisolight 
6.o-ateo
verb suffix 
7.－iono
noun suffix 

8.oe-(ex-)oout 
9.ointimusoinnermost 
10.omiserowretched 
11.ovacillooto swing back and forth 
12.oambi-both 
13.ooscillumoasw.ing 





・ 
1. ・ simulationosim'-y今LAY'.sh叩 
2.odissimulated沁IM＇寸ao-layt'o



3.edissimulatione
4.edissemblee
5.edissemblancee
6. intimatione
7.ealleviatione
8.ealleviativee
9.elevitatee
10.elevitatione
11.elevitye

13.evacillatione



14.evacillatorye
15.eambivalente
16.eambivalencee
17.eoscillatee
18.eoscillatione

Can you work. with the words? Ill 
1. simulatione

2.edissemblee
3.eintimatione
4.ealleviation -
5. levitatee
6.elevitye
7.ecommiseratione
8.e・ vacillatione
9.eambivalencee
10.eoscillatione




d今sim＇一y今LAY'-sh叩da-SEM'一切led3-SEM'-bl3ns in'-ta-MAY'-sh如今lee'-vee-AY'-sh叩今LEE'-vee-ay'-tiveLEV'－于tayt'elev'七TAY'-sh叩 LEV'-a-tee 

ka-miz'-3-RA Y'-sh叩 

vas＇一a-LAY'一sh叩
VAS'，七tawr'-eee
am-BIV＇-3-fant 
am-BIV'－午13nse
OS'七layt'e
OS'－今LAY'-sheane
a.ehinte
b.eflippancy or joking when se-riousness・is requirede
c.ea sharing of griefe


swingingeaction, as of a pendμlume
e.ea swinging back and forth ineindecisione
f.epretensee


g.conflict吐andecontrary feel-ingse

h.erise in the air (as by magiceor illusion)e
i.epretende
j.ea lightening; a making lesse





KEY: 1-f, 2-i, 3-a,4才，5-h,e6-b, 7-c, 8-，9-g, 10-d 
469 

Can you work with the words? 1111 


1. dissimulate 
2. dissemblance 
3. alleviative 
4. levitation 
5. vacillatory 
6. ambivalent 





Do you unde『stand the words? 
i
L simulated-genune 
2. ・ dissimulate--pretend 
3; dissemble-be truthful 
4: intimation-hint 
5. alleviation-reduction 6; levitate--sink 
8. vacillation--decisiveness a. pretense of ignorance 
b. a rising and float伍ginair 
c; having simultaneous and con-traryfeelings
d. tending to swing back and forth in indecision 
e. to swing back and forth like a pendulum 
f. to hide real feelings by pre-tending opposite feelings 
g. tending to ease (pain, bur-



dens, suffering, etc.) 


SAME SAME SAME SAME SAME SAME SAME SAMB OPPOSITE OPPOSITE OPPOSITE OPPOSITE OPPOSITE OPPOSITE OPPOSITE OPPOSITE 




Can you recall the words? 
1. to swing back and forth 1. 
O 
2. 
feeling both ways at the same 2. time (adj.) 

3. 
to conceal real feelings 3. D or 



5. 
to pretend ignorance though knowing the facts 

6. 
joking; frivolity; flippancy 6. 

7. 
indecisive or 

8. 
to rise in the air, as by illusion 8. 

9. 
tending to ease (pain, etc.) (adj.). or 

10. 
a sharing of another's grief 10. 


(n.) 

4-simulation, 5-dissemble, 6-levity, 7-vacillatory or vacil-lating, 8-lcvitate, 9-alleviative or alleviating, l<H:ommiser-




CHAPTER REVIEW 
A. Do you recognize the words? 
1. Complete exhaustion: 
(a) synergism, (b) enervation, (c) negation 
2. Co-operation in producing effects: 
(a) synergy, (b) castigation, (c) capitulation 
3. Lop off the head of: 
(a) castigate, (b) capitulate, (c) decapitate 
4. deny; render ineffective: 
(a) castigate, (b) negate, (c) recapitulate 






5.estagnate:e
(a)eintimate, (b) simulate, (c) vegetatee
6.econcealment of true feelings:e
(a)esimulation, (b) dissimulation, (c) dissemblancee
7.esympathy:e
(a)elevity, (b) ambivalence, (c) commiseratione
8.eindecisiveness:e

KEY: 1-b!2-a, 3-c,4-b,5-c,6-bandc, 7-c, 8-a, 9-c 

B.eCan you recognize roots?e 
ROOr  MEANING  EXAMPLE  
1.enervuse enervate  
2.-ergone energy  
3.enegoe seH-abnegation  
4.ecaput, capitlse decapitate  
5.ecapitul血  recapitulate  
6.evegetoe vegetate  
7.esimuloe dissimulate  
8.esimilise similarity  
9.elevise levity  
10.eintimuse intimation  
11.emisere commiserate  
12.evacilloe vacillate  
13. ambi- ambivalent  
14.eoscill叩  oscillate  

KEY: I-nerve,・ 2-work, 3-deny, 4-head, 5-little head,中apetereheading, 6-live and grow, 7-to copy, 8-'1ike, similar, 



TEASER QUESTIONS FOR THE A从ATEUR ETYMOLOGIST 
We have previously met the Greek prefix syn-, together or with, in synonym ("names together") and sympathy ("feeling with"), and again in this chapter in synergism ("working together"). 
Syn-is a most useful prefix to know. Like Latin con-, (together or with) and ad-(to, toward), the final letter changes depending on the first letter of the root to which it is attached. Syn-becomes sym-before b, m, and p. 
Can you construct some words using syn-, or sym才o

1. Etymologically, Jews are "led together" in a house of wor-ship (agogos, leading). Can you construct the word for this tern-
pie or place of \1/orship? 

2. There is a process by which dissimilar organisms live to-gether (bios, life) in close association, each in some way helping, and getting help from, the other (like the shark and the pilot fish). What word, ending in -sis, designates such a process? 
3. Using Greek phone, sound, write the word that etymo-logically refers to a musical composition in which the sounds 
4. Combine sym-with metron, measurement, to construct a word designating similarity of shape on both sides (i.e., "measure-ment together''): 





are the building blocks of a 
medical word designating a group of symptoms that occur (i.e., run) together in certain diseases. Can you figure out the word? 
6.oThe same dromos, a running, combines with Greek hippos,ohorse, to form a word referring to a place in ancient Greece in 


which horse and chariot races were run. The word? 

7.eHippos,-horse, plus Greek potamos, river, combine to form aeword designating one of the three pachyderms we discussed in an earlier chapter. The word? 

(Answers in Chapter 18.) 
PICKING YOUR FRIENDS'BRAINS 
You can build your vocabulary, I have said, by increasing your familiarity with new ideas and by becoming alert to the new words you meet in your reading of magazines and books. 
There is still another productive method, one that will be partic-ularly applicable in view of all the new words you are learning from your study of these pages. 

That method is picking your frien心brains.e

e
Intelligent people are interested in words because words aresymbols of ideas, and the person with an alert mind is always in-terested in ideas. 
You may be amazed, if you have never tried it, to find that you can stir up an animated discussion by asking, in a social group that you attend, "What does mean?" (Use any word that particularly fascinates you.) Someone in the group is likely to know, and almost everyone will be willing to make a guess. From that point on, others in the group will ask questions about their own favorite words (most people do have favorites), or about words that they themselves have in some manner recently learned. As the discussion continues along these lines, you will be introduced to new words yourself, and if your friends have fairly good vocabularies you may strike a rich vein of pay dirt and come away with a large number of words to add to your vocabulary. 
This method of picking your friends'brains is particularly fruit-ful because you will be learning not from a page of print (as in this book or as in your other reading) but from real live persons -the same sources that children use to increase their vocab-


ularies at such prodigious rates. No learning is quite as effective as the learning that comes from other people―no information in print can ever be as vivid as information that comes from another human being. And so the words you pick up from your friends will have an amazingly strong appeal, will make a lasting impres-sion on your mind. 
Needless to say, your own 
rich vocabulary, now that you have come this far in the book, will make it possible for you to contrib-ute to your friends'vocabulary as much as, if not more than, you take away一but since giving to others is one. of the greatest sources of a feeling of self-worth, you can hardly complain about this extra dividend. 

(End of Session 44) 








Brief Intermission Nine 

TAKE TIIlS SPELLING TEST 


Even in the most painstakingly edited of m吧而nes,ea silly little misspelling of a perfectly common word will occasionally appear. How the error eluded the collective and watchful eyes of the edi-tor, the associate editor, the assistant editor, the typesetter, and the proofreader, no ope will ever know―for practically every re迅ereof the magazine spots it 
at once and writes an indignant letter, beginning:''Didn't you ever go to school... ?" 
Even if you went to school, you're going to have plenty of trou-ble spotting the one misspelled word in each group below. And not one of these words will be a demon like sphygmo血nometere(a device for measuring blood pressure) or piccalilli (a highly seasoned relish), which no one would ever dare spell without first checking with a dictionary. On the contrary, every word will be of the common or garden variety that you might use every day in your social or business 
Nevertheless, you're letting yourself in for ten minutes of real trouble, for you will be working with fifty particularly difficult spelling words. So put on your thinking cap before you begin. 
A half-dozen high school teachers who took this test were able tom吐eean average score of only five proper choices. Can you do better? Six or seven right is very good, eight or nine right is excel-lent, and 100 per cent success marks you as an absolute expert in English spelling. 
476 



Check the only misspelled word in each group. 
A: 1-surprise, 2-disappear, 3-innoculate, 4--description, 5-rec-ommend B: 1-privilege, 2-separate, 3-incidentally, 4--dissipate, 5-0ccur-ence C: 1-analize,2-argument, 3-assistant, 4-comparative, 5-truly 

D: 1-grammar, 2-drunkeness, 4-parallel, 4节acrilegious, 5-con-science E: 1-precede, 2-exceed, 3-accede, 4-procede, 5-concede F: 1-pronunciation, 2-noticable, 3-desir.ble, 4-holiday, 5-anoint G: 1-wierd, 2-seize, 3-achieve, 4-receive, 5-leisure H: 1-superintendent, 2-persistent, 3-resistant, 4-insistent, 5-perseverence I: 1-accessible, 2-permissible, 3-inimitable, 4-irresistable, 
5-ir-ritable J: I-pursue, 2-pastime, 3-kidnapped, 4-rhythmical, 5-exhil-



KEY: A-3 (inoculate), B一5 (occurrence), C-1 (analyze), D-2 (drunkenness), E-4(proceed), F-2 (noticeable), 




477 

16 



HOW TO TALK ABOUT A VARIETY OF PERSONAL CHARACTERISTICS 
(Sessiom45-46) 


What word, ending in -ous, describes someone who is: 
. fawning, servilely attentive, transparently self-ingratiating?
. nagging, dissatisfi必complaining? 
.snobbish, haughtily contemptuous, arrogant? 
. noisily troublesome, unmanageable? 
. habitually short of cash? 
. attentive and courteous to women?.harmle.巧？ 
. fond of liquor? 
. pale, gaunt, haggard? 
. melancholy, sorrowful? 





SESSION 45 
There are thousands of English words that end in the letters -ous -a Latin suffix meaning full of. 

The central theme about which the words in this chapter revolve is the idea of "fullness” ―and as you will shortly see, you can be full of compliance and servility; fuJI of complaints; full of snob-bery; full of noise; full of no money; full of horsemanship; fuJJ of harmlessness; full of liquor; full of deathly pallor; and full of sor-rows. 
For each of these ideas English has a word一andethe person with a rich vocabularly knows the exact word to describe what someone is full of. 

IDEAS 

1. compliance 
The Latin root sequor means to follow一andethose who followerather than lead are usually in a menial, subordinate, or inferior position. People who engage in certain fields of endeavor一 
waiters, clerks, and servants, for example―are forced, often con-trary to their natural temperaments, to act excessively courteous, pleasant, obliging, even subservient and humble. They must follow the lead of their customers or employers, bending their own wills according to the desires of those they serve. They are, etymologi-cally, full of following after, or一 
obsequious 
RELATED WORDS: 



1. obsequies―In a funeral cortege, the mourners follow after the corpse. Hence, obsequies are the burial ceremonies, the funeral rites. 
2.esubsequent―A subsequent letter, paragraph, time, etc. is oneethat follows another. 
3. sequel―A sequel may be a literary work, such as a novel,ethat follows another, continuing the same subject, dealing with the same people or village, etc. or it may be an occurrence that grows out of or follows another, as in, "Just wait until you hear the sequel to the story!" 
4. sequence-In order, one item following another,・ as in, "The sequence of events of the next few days left him breathless." 





Any other word containing the root sequ-i. likely to have some relationship to the idea of followite
2.ecomplaintse

The Latin root queror means to complain-and anyone full ofecomplaints, constantly nagging; harping, fretful, petulant, whin-ing, never satisfied, may accordingly be called一e

querulous 
3. snobberye

The Latin root cilium means eyelid; super means above,・ and above the eyelid, as anyone can plainly see, is the eyebrow. Now there are certain obnoxious people who go around raising their eyebrows in contempt, disdain, and sneering arrogance at ordi-nary mortals like you and me. Such contemptuous, sneering, over-bearingly conceited people are called一 
supercilio匹 
-4. noise 

The Latin root strepo means to make a noise. Anyone who is unruly, boisterous, resistant to authority, urunanageable-and in a noisy, troublesome manner一ise

obstreperous 



5. moneylesso
The Latin root pecus means cattle一andoat one time in human history a person's wealth was measured not by stocks and bonds but by stocks of domestic animals, which was a Jot more logical, since you get milk and leather and meat from cattle-true wealth 一andoall you get from the stock market is a headache. 
Someone who had Jots of pecus, then, was rich―someone without pecus was indigent, destitute, "broke." And so today we call someone who is habitually without funds, who seems generalJy to be full of a complete lack of money一 

lmpecumous 


This word is not a synonym of indigent, destitute, or poverty-stricken; it does not necessarily imply living in reduced. circum-stances or want, but quite simply being short of cash一habitually.o
RELATED WORD: 
1.pecuniary一pertainingoto money, as in, a pecuniary consid-eration, pecuniary affairs, etc. 

6. horseso
The French word cheval means horse; and in medieval times only gentlemen and knights rode on horses-common people walked. Traditionally (but not, I understand, actually) knights were courteous to women, attentive to female desires, and self-sacrificing when their own interests came in conflict with those of the fair sex. Hence, we call a modem man who has a knightly attitude to women一 

chivalrous 
RELATED WORDS: (Cheval, horse, comes from Latin caballus, an inferior horse. Callabus is found in English words in the spelling caval-.) 

1.ocavalcade一Aoprocession of persons on horseback, as in a parade. 

―
2. cavalieroAs a noun, a cavalier was once a mounted soldier. 




As an adjective, c;,叮alierodescribes actions and attitudes that are・ haughty, unm血fuloof others'feelings, too offhand, such attributes often being associated with people in power (the military being one of the powers-that-be). Thus, "He answered in a cavalier man-ner''would signify that he was arrogant in his answer, as if the questioner were taking a little too much privilege with him. Or, “A仕erothe cavalier treatm.nt I received, I n.ver wished to return," signifying that I was pretty much made to feel unimportant and inferior. Or, "After her c叩alierorefusal, I'll never invite her to another party," signifying that the refusal was, perhaps, curt, o氐ohand, without any attempt-at apology or courtesy. 

3.ocavalry-The mounted, or "horsed" part of an army.o
4.ochivalry-Noun form of chivalrous. Can you write the alter-nate noun form ending in -ness? 
5.ochivalric-Less commonly used adjective form, identical inomeaning to chivalro皿o


Another Latin root for horse, as you know, is equus, found in words we have already discussed: 
1. equestrian一Aohorseman. 
2. equestrienne一Aohorsewoman. 

3.oequine---Horselike.o
7.ono harm doneo

The latin root noceo means to injure;-someone who need causeoyou no fear, so harmless is that person, so unable to interfere, so unlikely to get you into trouble, is called一 
innocuous 

旺LATEDoWORDS: 
1.oinnocent-Not guilty of crime or injury.o
2.onoxious-Harmful, poisonous; unwholesome.o


8.oalcoholico

The Latin root bibo means to drink; and one・ who is generallyofound with one foot up on the brass rail, who likes to tipple be-




yond the point of sobriety―who, in short, has an overfondness for drinks with a pronounced alcoholic content, is called, usually humorously-

bibulous 
RELATED WORDS: 
1. imbibe一Toedrink in, soalc up, absorb. H we use this verb without specifying what is drunk, as in, "He likes to imbibe," the implication, of course, is always liquor; but imbibe may also be used in patterns like "imbibe learning" or "In early infancy she imbibed a respect for her parents." 
2. bib一Upperepart of an apron, or an apronlike napkin tied around a ・child's neck. In either case, the bib prevents what is drunk (or eaten) from spilling over, or dribbling down, on the wearer's clothing. 


9.elike death itself ・e
The Latin root cado means to fall-one's final fall is of courseealways in death, and so someone who looks like a corpse (figura-tively speaking), who is pale, gaunt, thin, haggard, eyes deep-sunk, limbs wasted, in other words the extreme opposite of the picture of glowing health, is called一 
ca4averous 
RELATED WORDS: 
1.ecadave,―A corpse, literally, especially one used for surgicaledissection. 
2.edecadent-Etymologically, "falling down" (de-is a prefixeone meaning of which is down, as in descend, climb down; decline, turn down; etc.). If somet出ngeis in a decadent state, it is deterio-rating, becoming corrupt or demoralized. f!_ecadence is a state of decay. Generally decadent 
and decadence are used figuratively -they refer not to actual physical decay (as of a dead body), buteto moral or spiritual decay.e


1 0. pain and misery 
The Latin root doleo means to suffer or grieve--one who is 






483 


mournful and sad, whose melancholy comes from physical pain or mental distress, who seems to be suffering or grieving, is called-
dolorous 
RELATED WORDS: 

1.edolor―A poetic synonym of grief.e
2.edoleful―A word referring somewhat humorously to exag-gerated dismalness, sadness, or dreariness. 
3. condole―Etymologically, to suffer or grieve with (Latin con-, with, together). Condole is a somewhat less commonly used synonym of commiserate, a verb we discussed in Chapter 15. The noun condolence is much more frequently heard than the verb, as in, "Let me offer you my condolences," usually said to someone mourning the death of a friend or relative. You・ have heard of condolence cards, and no doubt have sent your share of them. When you condole with somebody who has sustained a loss, usu-ally by death, you are saying, in effect, "I am suffering or grieving with you." 



REVI邸OFETY从Ol.OGY 

PREFIX, ROOT, SUFFIX MEANING ENGLISH WORD 1. sequoreto follow 

2.equeroreto compl血e
3.eciliumeeyelid 
4.esuper above 

S. strepo to make a noise 
6.epecus cattle 
1. -aryeadjective suffix 
8.eim-(in-) negative prefix 
9. cheval 
horse 


cal/ab匹 (caval-)einferior horse 
11. -ouseadjective suffix 
12.e-iceadjective suffix 
13.eequuse
horse 
14.e-ineelike, similar to, characteristic of 
15. bibo to drink 
16. im-(in-) in 





11. cado to fall 
18.ode-down 
19. -entoadjective suffix 
20. 
-ence noun suffix 
21. con-with, together 

USING TI-IE WORDS 
A. THB .BASIC WORDS 



Can you pronounce the words? 
1. obsequious ob-SEEK'-wee-as 
2. querulousoKWAIR'-a-Jas 
3. supercilious
s叩'-par-SIL'-ee-aso
4.oobstreperousoab-STREP'-ar勺So
5. i 
im'-pa-KYOO'-nee-as 
. impecumouso

6.ochivalrousoSHIV'勺1-raso
7.oinnocuousoa-NOK'-y.-:iso
8.obibulousoBIB'-ya-faso
9. cadaverous k今DAV'-ar-?so




10.odolorous DOL'-ar-:is or DO'-lar-:iso
Can you work with the words? (I) 
1.oobsequious a.osnobbisho
2. querulousob. hannlesso
3.osuperciliousoc.ogaunto
4.oobstreperousod. short of fundso
5. i

. 1mpecumous 

e.ofawning; excessively, ingra-tiatingly, politeo6. chivalrousof. sorrowfulo
7. innocuousog.oaddicted to drinko
8. bibulous h. courteous to womeno
9.ocadaverousoi complaining 
10.odolorousoj.ounmanageableo





485 


Match each word in the first column with one from the second column that is opposite in meaning. 
1.oobsequiouso
a.ocontent; uncomplaining; sat-
isfiedo2; querulous b.oaffluento

3.osuperciliousoc.ohealthyo
4.oobstreperousod.orudeo
5.oimpecuniouso
e.osobero
6.ochivalrousof.odangerouso
7.oinnocuouso
g.ohumbleo
8.obibulousoh.omisogynouso
9.ocadaverousoi.ohappy; cheerfulo
10.odolorousoj.oquieto

KEY: 1-d，2-a,3-g,4-j, 5-b, t仁oh,7-f, 8--e,9-<:, 10-i 
Do you understand the words? 
1.oDo obsequious people usuallyoYES NO command our respect?o
2.oAre querulous people satisfied?oYES NO 
3.oAre superciUqus people usuallyoYES NO popular?o
4.oIs a person of affluence impecunious?oYES NO 
5.oDo some women like chivalrous men?
邓S NO 




6. 
Are innocuous people dangerous? YES NO 

7. 
Is a bibulous character a teetotaler? YES NO 

8. 
Is a cadaverous-looking individual the YES NO picture of health? 

9. 
Is a dolorous attitude characteristic of YES NO jovial people? 

10. 
Is an obstreperous child difficult to YES NO manage? 


KEY: 1-no, 2-no, 3-no, 4-no, 5-yes, 6-no, 7-no, 8-no, 9-no, 
10-yes 
Can you recall the words? 
1. 
sorrowful 1. D 

2. 
servilely attentive; overly polite 2. 0. , 3. haggard; gaunt; pale 3. C 


4. 
complaining; whining 4. Q. 

5. 
addicted to alcohol; likely to 5. B. 


drink past the point of sobriety 
7. 
harmless 

8. 
noisily unmanageable 

9
. attentive and courteous to 


women -10. short of money; without funds 10. 
KEY: 1-dolorous, 2-obsequious, 3-cadaverous, 4-querulous, 5-bibulous, 6-supercilious, 7-innocuous, 8-obstreperous, 6. S. 7. 


(End of Session 45) 

487 



SESSION 46 

B. RELATED WORDS 
Can you pronounce the words? (I) 
1.-obsequies-
2.-subsequent-
3. sequel 
4.-sequence-
5.-
6. noxlOUS 


1. imbibe 
8. dolor-
9. doleful-l 0. cavalcade-


11. cavalier (adj.)-
Can you pt'Onounce the words? 1111 

t. cavalry-
2.-chivalry-
3.-chivalric-
4.-condole 
5. condolence 
6.-equestrian 



8. equme 
9. ca血ver-
10. decadent-
11. decadence-


Can you work with the words? 
1.-obsequies 
2. subsequent-
3.-sequel-



OB'一sa-kweez-SUB'一S己kwant-SEE'-kwal SEE'-kwans 产KYOO＇一nee-air'-ee-NOK'-shas im-BIB' D6'-1:lr DOL'-fal KA V'-al-kayd' 尥v-a-LEER'-



KA V'-al-ree SHIV'-:il-ree s阮VAL'-rik-kan-DOL' kan-DO'-lans 今KWES'-tree如a-K师S'-tree-en'-EE'-kwin' ka-DAV仁aror ka-DA Y'-v忒 DEK'-a-dantord今KAY'-dant-DEK'-a-dansord午KAY'-da邱-


a.-proper order-
b.-drink; absorb; take in-
c. harmful, poisonous-





4.esequencee
5.epecuniarye
6.enoxiouse
7.eimbibee
8.edolore
9. dolefule
10. cavalcadee
11.ecavalier (adj.)e
12.ecavalrye
13. eque.triane
14. equestrienne 
15. equinee
16. cadavere
17.edecadente
18.edecadencee
19.echivalrye
20.econdolencee




d. pain, sorrow (poetic)e
e.ecoming later or afterwarde
f.eprocession of mounted riderse
h.ea following event or literaryeworke
i.ehorsewomane
j.epertaining to moneye
k.emounted military division;esoldiers on horseback 


I.efuneral rites 皿exaggeratedlyesorrowfule
n.ehorselikee
o.ehorsemane
p.espiritual declinee
q. morally decayinge
r.ecorpsee
s.eexpression of sympathye
t.egallant courtesy to womene



KEY: 1-1, 2-e,3-h, 4-a, 5寸，6-c，干b,e8-d,9-m, 10-f, 11-g, 12-k, 13-o,14-i 15-n, 16-r, 17-q,18-p, 19一et,20-s 
Do you understand the words? Ill 
1.eAre speeches usually made duringeYES NO obsequies?e
2.eDid Margaret Mitchell write a sequel to YES NO Gone with the Wind? 
3.eAre these numbers in sequence: 5, 6, 7,eYES NO 8, 9, 10, 11? 
4.eDo banks often handle the pecuniaryeYES NO details of an estate? 
5. Is arsenic a noxious chemical? YES NO 
6.eDo children sometimes imbibe wisdomeYES NO from their parents?e

. 7. If a song.is sung in tones of dolor, is it I YES 'NO a happy song? 


8.oIs a doleful countenance a happy one?o YES  NO  
9.oDoes a cavalcade contain horses?o YES  NO  
1 O. Does a cavalier attitude show a spirit of YES  NO  


1.oIs a cava的officerousually a goodohorseman?o
2.oWould an equestrian statue of GeneraloGrant show him・ with or on a horse? 
3.oIs an equestrienne a man?o
4.oDo humans possess many equineocharacteristics?o
5.oIs a cadaver alive?o
6.oIs an iconoclast likely to consideroreligion a decadent institution?o
7.oIs decadence a desirable quality?o
8.oIs chivalry dead?o
9.oIs it appropriate to condole withosomeone who has suffered a lossothrough death?o
10.oAre condolences appropriate at aoweddin. ceremony? 




YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  
YES  NO  


KEY: I-yes, 2-yes, 3-no, 4-no, 5-no, 6-yes, 7-no, 8-yes,'or no, depending on your point of view, 9-yes, 10-no (unless you're misogamous) 
Do you understand the words? 11111 

1.oobsequies-riteso
.AMB OPPOSITE. 
2.
subsequent一precedingoSAMB OPPOSITE 





3. pecuniary-financial SAMB OPPOSITE 
4. sequence--order SAME OPPOSITE 

―
5. noxious harmful SAME OPPOSITE 
6. imbibe-drink SAME OPPOSITE 
7. dolor-delight SAME OPPOSITE 
8. doleful-merry SAME OPPOSITE 
9. cavaliei,--courteous SAME OPPOSITE 
10. cadaver--corpse 
SAME OPPOSITE 
11. decadent一resurgent SAME OPPOSITE 
12. chivalry-gallantry to women SAME ' OPPOSITE 
13. condolences-congratulations SAME OPPOSITE 


KEY: 1-S, 2-0，3-S,4-S, 5-S, 6-S, 7 -0， 8-O, 9-O,10--S, 11-0,12-S,13-0 

Can you recall the words? 
1.harm红l 
2. a literary work or an event that follows another 
3. drink in 
4. poetic word for sorrow 
5. burial ceremonies ・6._ horseman 


7. horsewoman 
8. horselike 
9. following (adj.) 
10. relating to money (adj.) 
11. exaggeratedly sad 
12. proper order 
13. parade of mounted riders 
14. offhand; unmindful of another's feelings 
15. mounted soldiers 

17. morally deteriorating (adj.) 
18. spiritual decay 
19. expression of sympathy 


1. N 2. 
3. 
19. 491 


KEY: 1--noxious, ・2-sequel, 3-imbibe, 4-dolor, 5-obsequies, 6-equestrian, 7-equestrienne, 8-equine, 9-subsequent, 10-pecuniary, 11-doleful, 12-sequence, 13-cavalcade, 14-cavalier, 15-cavalry,16也daver, 17-decadent, 18一 decaden也 19-condolence,20-chivalry or-chivalrousness 

1. Excessively polite and fawning: 
(a) querulous,(b)obsequious, (c) supercilious 
2. Noisily troublesome: 
(a)querulous, (b) impecunious, (c) obstreperous 
3. Courteous and attentive to women: 
(a)querulous, (b) chivalrous, (c) supercilious 
(a)querulous, (b) supercilious, (c) innocuous 

5. Haughtily disdainful: 
(a) supercilious, (b) bibulous, (c) dolorous 
6. Gaunt, corpselilce: 

(a)noxious, (b) cadaverous, (c) doleful 
7. Highhanded: 

(a) supercilious, (b) cavalier, (c) decadent ・8. Moral decay: 
(a) decadence, (b) obsequies, (c) sequence 

9. Expression of sympathy: 

(a) bibulousness, (b) dolefulness, (c) condolence 
10. Courtesy to women: 
(a)dolor, (b) chivalry, (c) decadence 





B. Can you recognize roots?  
ROOT  MEANING  EXAMPLE  
1. sequor  subsequent  
2. queror  querulous  
3. cilium 4. super  supercilious．．superv1S1on  
5. strepo  obstreperous  
6. pecus  pecuniary  
1. cheval  chivalry  
8. caballus (caval-)  cavalier  
9. equus  equine  
10. cado  decadence  

KEY: 1-to follow, 2-to complain, 3-eyelid, 4-above, 5-to make a noise, 6-cattle, ・ 7-horse, 8-(mferior) horse, 9-horse, 

TEASER QUESTIONS FOR THE A从ATEUR ETYMOLOGIST 

1. In logic, a conclusion not based on the evidence is called a non sequitur,・ by extension, the term is applied to any statement that appears to have no connection or relevance to what was said before. Knowing the root sequor, how would you define this term 

what differently spelled. (Remember verto, versus and loquot, locutus?) The other form of sequor is secutus. Can you define the following words in terms of the root? 
(a) second: 
(b) consecutive: 

(c) persecute: 
(d) prosecute: 




493 

3.oLatin super, above or over, is used as a prefix in hundredsoof English words. Can you figure out the word starting with super-that fits each etymological definition? 
(a)o
above others (in quality, position, etc.)o

(c)o
(flowing) above what is necessary; more thanoneeded (adj.)"---..:o

(e)o
to oversee; be in charge of (v.)o





4.oCado, to fall, is found in the following English words (some-times the root is spelled-cid). Can you define each word in terms of its etymological parts? 
(a)o
cadence:o

(b)o
occidental:o

(c)o
deciduous:o

(d)o
incident:o


(e)o
accident:o

(f)o
coincidence:o


5.oThe negative prefix in-plus doleo, to suffer, forms an ad-jective that etymologically means not suflering (pain), but actually means idle; lazy; disliking efjort or work. Can you figure out the 


(End of Session 46) 





ANOTHER CHECK ON YOUR SPELLING 


In each line you will find four words--one of them purposely, subtly, and perhaps unexpectedly misspelled. It's up to you to check the single error. If you can come out on top at least fifteen times out of twenty, you're probably a better speller than you real-ize. 
1. 
(a) alright, (b) coolly, (c) supersede, (d) disappear. 

2. 
(a) inoculate, (b) definately, (c) irresistible, 


(d) recommend 
3. 
(a) incidentally, (b) dissipate, (c) seperate, (d) balloon 

4. 
(a) argument, (b) ecstasy, (c) occurrance, (d) analyze 

5. 
(a) sacrilegious, (b) weird, (c) pronunciation, (d) repitition 

6. 
(a) drunkeness, (b) embarrassment, (c) weird, (d) irritable 

7. 
(a) noticeable, (b) superintendant, (c) absence, 


(d) development 
8. 
(a) vicious, (b) conscience, (c) panicy, (d) amount 

9. 
(a) accessible, (b) pursue, (c) exhilarate. (d) insistant 

10. 
(a) naivete, (b) necessary, (c) catagory, (d) professor lL (a) rhythmical, (b) sergeant, (c) vaccuum, (d) assassin 


12. 
(a) benefitted, (b) allotted, (c) corroborate, (d) despair 

13. 
(a) diphtheria, (b) grandeur, (c) rediculous, (d) license 





14. 
(a) tranquillity, (b) symmetry, (c) occassionally, 


16. (a) bicycle,(b) geneology,(c) liquefy, (d) bettor 
17. (a) defense,(b) batchelor,(c) stupefy,(d) parallel 
18. (a) whisky,(b) likable,(c) bookkeeper,(d) accomodate 
19. (a) comparitive,(b) mayonnaise,(c) indispensable 



(d) dexterous 
20. (a) dictionary,(b) cantaloupe,(c) existance,(d) ukulele 

rence), 5-d(rep.tition), 6-a(drunkenness), 7-b(superin-tendent), 8-c(panicky), 9-d(insistent), 10-c(category), 11-c(vacuum), 12-a(benefited), 13-c(ridiculous), 14-c (occasionally), 15-a (tarifi), 16-b (genealogy), 17-b (bachelor), 18-d（accommodate), 19-a (comparative), 








17 


HOW TO CHECK YOUR PROGRESS 

Comprehensive Test Ill 

ROOT MEANING 
1. {luo 
2. pheme 
3. platys 
4. felis 
5. piscis 
6. nostos 


1. kakos 
8. carnis 
9. voro 

10. omnis
．
11. potens, potentts 
12. ubique 
13. lupus 
14. doleo 
15. porcus 
16. thanatos 


EXAMPLE affluent euphemism platitude feline piscine nostalgia cacophony carnivorous 
．
voracious omnivorous impotent ubiquity lupine dolorous porcine euthanasia 




497 



17. canis 
18. vulpus 
19. a/gos

、 
20. odyne 
21. logos 
22.
sciens, scient比 

23. ursus 
24. phone 
25. penuria 

II一more etymology 
ROOT, PREFIX 
1. nervus 
2. ergon 
3. nego 
4. caput, capitis 
5. capitulum 

6. vegeto 

1. simulo 
8. similis 
9. levis 10. intim1,s 

11. miser 
12. vacillo 
13. ambi-
14. oscillum 
15. sequor, secutus 
16. queror 


11. cilium 
18. super-
19. strepo 
20. pecus 
21. equus 
22. caballus (caval-) 
23. loquor, locutus 
24. cado 
25. vanesco 



canine 
vulpine 
nostalgic 
anodyne 
eulogy 
omniscient 
ursine -
euphonious 
penury 
EXAMPLE 
enen「ate energy negation decapitate recapitulate vegetate simulate similarity alleviate intimate (v.) commiserate vacillate ambivalent oscillate obsequious querulous supercilious superior obstreperous impecunious equine cavalier circumlocution decadence evanescent 







"\-same or opposite? 
1.openury―a扭uenceo
2.ovicarious--secondhando
3.oephemeral--evanescento4.badinage--pers诅ageo

5.ocacophony--euphonyo

00000 
sssss 


s 
sssssssss 
00 000000 0 
6.oclandestine-surreptitiouso
7.oparsimonious--extravaganto8.oindigent-0pulento


9.odestitute--imp如niouso

10.oeuphemistic-indirecto
11.clich仁bromideo
12.oplatitudinous-originalo
13.ovoracious―gluttonous 

1.. omnipresent―ubiquitous 
14.omniscient一ignorant


0 000 0

16, 
carnal-libidinous 
17.ocarnage-slaughtero
18.oenervated--exhilaratedo
19.ocastigate--condoneo
20.osimulate--pretend


IV一matchingo

WORDS DEFINITIONS 

0 
1.oalleviatingo
a.oexcessively polite or servileo
2.ocavalier("让）ob.ogaunt, corpselikeo
3.ovacillatingoc.onoisyo
4.oobsequiousod.opoisonousoe
5.oquerulouso
6.oobstreperouso
7.oinnocuouso
8.ocadaverouso
9.odolorouso
10.onoxiouso





499 

V-more matchinge

1.econdolenceea.ea rising into the aire
2.edecadenteb.eharsh sounde

3. levityec.epowerlessnesse
4.elevitationed. a return to life in a new forme
5.esurreptitiousee. devouring all; eating every-thinge
6.ecacophonye
f.eexpression of sympathye
7. reincarnationeg.ecowlike; phlegmatic; stolide
8.eomnivorouseb.emorally deterioratinge
9.eimpotenceei.ejokinge
10.ebovineej.estealthy; secrete

VI-recall a worde
1.elionlikee
1. 2.edoglikee2. 
3.ecatlikee
4.epiglikee
5.efoxlikee
6.ebearlikee
7.ehorselikee. 
8. all-powerfule
9. in the fleshe
10.eto stagnate.e
11.esecret ・e12.meat-eating("让）e


13.elasting a very short timee
14.estingy; tight-fistede
15.efeeling contradictory ways at 15. 



the same time (adj.) 
16.espeech of praise 16. 
17.ea feeling of well-being, bothe17. physical and emotionale
18.estatement intended to allaye18. pain or a血ety





19.emercy deathe 19.  
20.escience of speech soundse 20.eP.e 
21.eall-powerfule 21.e0e 
22.eto give in; to stop resistinge 22.e 
23.ea working together for greatere 23.e 
effecte or  S.e 
24.eto beheade 24.eD.e 
25.erelating to, pertaining to, or  25.ePe 
involving money (adj.)e 
26.eharmlesse 26.  
27.etending to drink a lot (adj.)e ,  27. B  
28.eto express sympathy; to sharee 28.  
suffering, pain, or grief (with)e or. C  
29.esnobbish; contemptuous;e 29.eSe 
haughty; arrogante 
30.. mounted soldiers  30.eCe 


KEY.: A correct answer counts one point.・ Score your points for each part of the test, then add for a total. 
I 
o
1-t且ow,e2-voice, 3-ff.at, broad, .at, 5-fish, 6-a return,e7-hG池bad,eugly, 8-flesh, 9-to devour, 10-all, 11-powerful,e12-everywhere, 13-wolf, 14-to suffer, grieve, 15-pig, 16-death,e17-dog, 18-fox, 19-pain, 20-pain, 21-word, speech, 22-know-ing, 23-bear, 24-sound, 25-want, needinesse
Your score: 
II 1-nerve, 2-work, 3-to deny, 4-head, 5-little head, chapter head-ing, 6-to live and grow, 7-to CQpy, 8-like, similar, 9-light, 10-in-nermost, 11一wretched,e12-to swing back and forth, 13-both, 14-a swing, 15-to follow, 16-to complain, 17-eyelid, 18-above, 19-to make a noise, 20-cattle, 21-horse, 22-(inferior) horse, 23一toespeak, 24-to fall, 25-to vanish 
Your score: 
501 


m 

1-0,2-S, 3-S,4-S, s-0.6-S, 7-0,8-0, 9-S,10-S, 11-S, 12-0, 13-S,14-0, 15-S,]6-S, 17-S,18-0,19-0,20-S 
Your score: 

IV 1-i, 2-e,3-j, 4-a,5-g,6-c,7-h,8-b, 9--f, 10-d 

Your忒ore: 
V 
1-f, 2-h, 3-i,4-a, 5-j,6-b, 7-d,8--e, 9-c,10-g 
Your贮ore: 
VI I-leonine, 2-canin., 3-feline, 4-porcine, 5-vulpine, 6-ursine, 7--equine, 8-0mnipotent, 9-incarnate, 10-vegetate, 11-clandes-tine, 12-carnivorous, 13-ephemeral, 14-penurious or・parsi-monious, 15-ambivalent, 16-e认ogy,17-euphoria,・・ tS-anodyne, 19-euthanasia, 20-phonetics, 21-omnipotent, 22-capitulate, 23-synergism or synergy, 24-decapitate, 25-pecuniary, 26-in-nocuous, 27-bibulous, 28-condole or commiserate, 29-supercili-ous, 30-cavalry 
Your score: 


Your to句I score: 
Significance of Your Total Score: 
io.120: Masterly 8.99: Good 65-79: Average 50-64: Bal'..e.Y acceptable 35-49: Poor ・.34: ・Terrible! 








Record your score in the appropriate space below as well as your scores from Chapters 8 and 13. You will then 
have a com. parison ehart of all three achievement tests. 

SCORES 
TEST I (Chapter 8): 
out of 120. T邸T II (Chapter 13): out of 120. TEST lII (Chapter 17): out of 120. 

(End of Session 47) 



503 


18 




.HOW TO CHECK YOUR STANDING AS AN AMATEUR ETYMOLOGIST 

(Answers to Teaser Questions in Chapters 3-7, 9-12, and 14-16) 

CHAPTER 3: 

1. Anthropocentric (an'一thfQ于今SEN'-trik),aan adjective built on anthropos, mankind; Greek kentron, center, and the adjective 

suffix -ic, describes thinking, assumptions, reasoning, etc. that see mankind as the central fact, or ultimate aim, of the universe. The 
forms are either anthropocentrism (an'-thr:i-p:i-SEN'-triz. 叩）onoun raanthropocentricity (an'-thrn-p贮SQn-TRIS'七tee);a
2.aAndromania (an'-drn-MAY'-nee-Q), a combination ofaandros, man (male), phis mania, madness, signifies an obsession with males. Person: androm血iac,aone who is mad about men; ad-jective:叩dromaniacala(an'-dr:i-m:i-NI'-:i-kQl). 
3.aGy叩ndrous(ji-NAN'-d啦），combiningagyne, woman, with 血dros,aman (male), describes: 

a.aplants in which the male and female organs are united in theasame column; or. 
b. people who physically have both male and female sexual or-,-gans, often one or both in rudimentary form; or 
c. (a more recent meaning) people who exhibit, or are willingato own up to, the male and female emotional characteristics that everyone possesses. 



The word may have the roots 
in reverse, becoming androgynous (an-DROJ'仑nas),ewith all three meanings identical to those of gynandrous. .・ 
Hermaphroditic (hur-maf'-ra-DIT'-ik), a combination of Hermes, the Greek god who served as messenger or herald (in Roman mythology, this god was known as Mere叩，andeis conventionally pictured with wings on his heels), and Aphrodite, the Greek god-dess of love and beauty (in Roman mythology, Venus), has either of the first two meanin罗ofegynandrous. 
The noun fonn o. gynandrous is gynandry (ji-NAN'-dree) ; of 
androgynous, androgyny (an-DROJ宅nee);eof hermaphroditic, hermaphroditism (hur-MAF'一还di'-tiz-am).e
The individual plant is an andrognye (AN'-dra-jin); plant or person, a hermaphrodite (hur-MAF'-ra-dit'). 
4.eMonomania (mon-a-MA Y'-nee-a), combining monos, one,eand mania, madness, is an obsession with one thing, 
or obses-siveness in one area. Person: monomaniac; adjective: monomani-acal (mon'今ma-NI'七kal).e
5.eA misandrisl (mis-AN'-drist), combining misein; to hate,ewith andros, man (male), hates men. Noun: misandry (mis-AN'-dree). Adjective: misandrous (mis-AN'-dras). 
Check your learning 
ROOT MEANING EXAMPLE 
l.eanthroposeanthropocentric 
2.ekentroneanthropocentrism
3.eandroseandromania 4emamaeandromaniac 

5..gyneegynandrous
6.eHermesehermaphrodite
7.eAphroditeehermaphroditic
8.emonosemonomania 
9.emiseinemisandry 

KEY: 1-mankind, 2-center, 3-man (male), 4-madness, 5一woman,e6-Hermes, the messenger of the gods, 7-Aphrodite, god-dess of love and beauty, 8-one, 9-to hatee



CHAPTER -4: 

1.ePedodontia (pee企DON'-sha)eis the specialty of childedentistry―paidos, child, plus odontos, tooth. Specialist: pedo-dontist. Adjective: pedodontic. 
2.eCardialgia (kahr'-dee-AL'-ja), heart pain一如zrdia,eheart,eplus algos, pain. 
3.
Odontalgia（贮don-TAL'-ja),etoothache.e

4.eNostalgia (nos-TAL'一ja).eAdjective: nostalgic. 



Check your learning 

KEY: 1-child, 2-heart, 3-pain, 4-tooth, 5-a return 

CHAPTER 5: 
1.eEighty.to eighty-nine years old. From Latin octoginta,eeighty. People of other ages are as follows: 
(a)e50-59: qJinquagenarian (lcwin'-lcwa-ja-NAIR'-ee妞）e
(b)e60-69: sexagenarian (seks'仑片NAIR'-ee如）e
(c)e70-79: septuagenarian (sep'-ch叩一千j今NAIR＇ -ee-an)e(d)90-99: nonagenarian (non'今片NAIR'-ee-an)e
(e)e100 and over: centenarian (sen'一te-NAIR'-ee.an)e


2.eCacophony (ka-KOP:心－nee).eAdjective: cacophonous (ka-KOF'七nas).e






3.oCacopygian (kak'-a-PIJ'-ee-.n).o
4.oTelescope (tele-plus skopein,-to view) or telebinoculars;otelephone; television. 

Check your learning  
PREFIX, RQOT  MEANING  EXAMPLE  
1.ooctogintao octogenarian  
2.oquinquagintao quinquagenarian  
3.osexagintao sexagenarian  
4.septu咚intao septuagenarian  
5.ononagintao nonagenarian  
6.ocentumo centenarian  
1.okakoso cacop.ony  
8.ophoneo cacophonous  
9.opygeo10.otele- cacopygian television  
11.oskopeino telescope  

KEY: 1-eighty, 2-fifty, 3-sixty, 4-seventy, 5-ninety, 6-one bun-dred, 7-ugly, harsh, bad, 8-sound, 9-buttock, 10-dis-tance, from afar, 11-to view 
CHAPTER 6, 
1.oSophomore,・ from sophos plus moros, foolish, the word ety-mologically designates one who is half wise and half foolish. The adjective sophomoric (sof-::i-MAWR'-ik) describes people, atti-tudes, statements, writings, etc. that _are highly opinionated, self-assured, and coming off as if wise, but which in reality are imma-ture, inexperienced, foolish, etc. 
2. Sophisticated (s今FIS'一ta--kay'七d).oThe verb is sophisti-cate, the noun sophistication. One who is worldly-wise is a so-phisticate (sa--FIS'-ta--k::it). 



507 


Sophisticated has in recent years talcen on the added meaning of highly developed, mature, or 
complicated; appealing to a mature intellect; or aware and knowledgeable. Examples: sophisticated machinery, electronic equipment; a sophisticated approach; a sophisticated audience, group. staff, faculty, etc. 

3.eOne who is obsessed with books, especially with collectingebooks. 
4.e(a) speaking one language, (b) speaking two languages, (c) 

speaking three languages. Multilinguale(multi.ls, many, plus lingua)-speaking many lan-
_ 
guages. A linguist is one who is fluent in many languages, or else an ex-pert in lingu泣icse(or both). Multus, as indicated, means many, as in multitude, multiply, multiple, multicolored, multifarious, multilateral, etc., etc. 

5. (a) France, (b) Russia, (c) Spain, (d) Germany, (e)eJapan, (f) China. 

6.e(a} androphile, (b) gynephile (or philogynist), (c) pedo-phi/e, (d) zoophile, (e) botanophile. 

But pedophilia (pee＇一如FIL＇一ee-a)eis another story. A pedo-philiac sexually molests young children-such love little kids can do without! 

Check your learning 
PREFIX, ROOT MEANING EXAMPLE 
1.esophose

sophomore 
2. morosesophomoric 
3.ebib/ion bibliomaniac 
4. mama bibliomania 
5.elinguaelinguist 
6. monosemonolingual 

1. bi-bilingual 
8.etri-trilingual 
9. multusemultilingual 
10. Franco-Francophile 11. Russo-Russophi1e 

I 
12.eHispano-Hispanophile 
13.eGermano-Germanophile 







KEY: I-wise, 2-foolisb, 3-book, 4-madness, 5-tongue, 6-one, 7-two, 8-three, 9-many, IO-France, 11-Russia, 
1这pain;e13-Germany, 14-Japan, 15-China, 16-man 
1.eA notable is someone well-known.e
2.eTo notify is, etymologically, to make known一notuse+ -fy, a derivation of facio, to make. Notice, as a noun, is what makes something known,・. to notice, as a verb, is to observe (something or someone) so that it, he, or she becomes known to the observer. -Fy, as a verb suffix, means to make. So simplify is to make simple, c血ifye,eto make clear; liquefy, to make liquid; putrefy, to make (or become) rotten or putrid; stupefy, to make stupid, or dumh, with astonishment (note the -e preceding the suffix in 

liquefy, putrefy, stupefy); fortify, to make strong; rectify, to make right or correct; etc., etc. 


3. Chronograph (KRON'-a-graf') is an instrument that meas-ures and records short intervals of time. 
4. To generate is to give birth to, figuratively, or to create oreproduce, as a turbine generates power, a person's presence gener-ates fear, etc. The noun is generation, which, in another context, also designates the people born and living about the same time (the older, previous, or next generation, the Depression genera-


: 14. Nippono-
15.esino-
16.eandrose

11. gynee
18.ephileine
20.ezoione
21.ebotane 

Nipponophile Sinophile androphile gynephile philogynist pedophile zooph丑e

botanophile 

509 


tion, etc.), or a period, conventionally set at about thirtr years, between such groups of people. To regenerate is to give birth to again, or to be born again. Some creatures can regenerate new limbs parts if these are lost or cut off--or the limbs or parts regenerate. or Re-means, of course, again; or, in some words, as recede, 
regress, etc., back. 5.Omnipotent (om-NIP'-:i-t:int)
―all-powerful; omnis plusepotens, potentis, powerful. Omnipresent (om'-n:i-PREZ'-:int)一presentall over, or every-where. Nouns: omnipotence, om成'presence.e

6. Anaphrodisiac (:in-af'-r今DIZ'-ee-a切一bothenoun and an adjective. Saltpeter is supposedly an anaphrodisiaa c; so, some people say, is a cold shower, which is highly doubtful. The best temporary anaphrodisiac is probably sexual intercourse. Some women who were teen-agers when Elvis Presley was at the height of his popularity have told 
me that the young man's gyrating hips were aphrodisiacal―I will take their word for it, as Elvis has never turned me on. On the other hand, if you want to talk about 
Diane Keaton or Raquel Welche... or especiaIIy Marilyn Monroee... 
Check your learning 

PREFIX, R90T MEANING EXAMPLE 

KEY: 1-known, 2-time, 3一toewrite, 4-birth, 5-again, 6-all, 7-powerful, 8-not.(negative)e

CHAPTER 9: 

1. 
Magnanimity (mag-na-NIM＇一a-tee).oAdjective: magnani-mous (mag-NAN'-:i-mas). 
2.oBilateral (bi-LAT'-ar-al), as in a bilateral decision, i.e., oneomade by the two sides or two people involved. On the other hand, a unilateral (y.-n吐AT'-ar-al)odecision is made by one person, without consultation with others. 
3.oTra邓cribe.oNoun: transcription. A stenographer tra心cribesoshorthand notes into English words, or a musical tr血scriberoar-ranges or adapts a musical composition for an instrument, group, etc. other than the one for which the work was originally written. 



4.oMalaria was once thought to have been caused by the "badoair" of swamps; actually, it was (and is) transmitted to humans by infected anopheles mosquitoes breeding and living in swamps and other places where there is stagnant water. 
5. -Confection. The word is hardly used much today with thisomeaning, except perhaps by members of an older generation who remember conf ectione六shopsoand confectionery stores. Now 


.ch places are called ice cream stores (or ice cream parlors) and are rUn, at least on the west coast, by Baskin-Robbins or Farrell's; or they are called candy shops; or, when I was growing up, candy stores, where the kids all hung out, and candies could be. bought 
for a penny apiece, with Hershey bars selling for a nickel (that's why they 
are called."the good old days"). 

Check your learning 
PREFIX, ROOT MEANING EXAMPLE 
1.omagnus 

magnanimous 
2.oanimusomagnanimity 
3.obi-bilateral 
4.ounusounilateral 
5.olatus, lateris unilateral 
6.otrans-transcribe 
7. scribo, scriptus transcription 





511 


KEY: 1-big, large, great, 2-mind, 3-two, 4-one, 5-side, 6--across, 7一toewrite, 8-bad, evil, 9-together, 10-to make 


CHAPTER 10: 

1. Modus operandi. Method (or mode) of working (or operat-ing). Pronounced MO'-d忑 op＇一a-RAN'-di,ethe word is not, of course, restricted to the special methods used by a criminal, but may refer to the method or style of operating characteristic of any other professional. Modus vivendi (MO'd:is v凶VEN'-di),eetymologically "method of living," is the style of life characteristic of a person or group. 
2.eCircumscription. To circumscribe also means, figuratively, toewrite (a line) around (one's freedom of action), 
so that one is restricted, limited, hemmed in, as in, "a life circumscribed by poverty, by parental injunctions, or by an overactive conscience, etc.," or "actions circumscribed by legal,restraints." The noun circumscription has the figurative meaning also. 
3. Som戊loquent.e(s:im-NIL＇今k四nt).eNoun: som戊loquencee(s:im-NIL'今kw:ins)eor somniloq叮（泗m-NIL＇.Q-kwee),ethe latter noun also designating the words spoken by the sleeper. One who habitually talks while asleep is a somniloquist (s:im-NIL'-Q-kwist). 
4. An aurist is ear specialist, commonly called 


otologist (o-TOL'七jian st),from Greek otosmore , ear. Noun: otology. anAdjective: otological（亡氐LOJ'今k:il).e
It is difficult at this point to resist telling a well-known story about medical specialists. In fact it's impossible to resist, so here it is: 

A dentist, doing his first extraction on a patient, was. under-


standably nervous. When he got the molar out, his hand shook, he "lost.his grip on the instrument, and the tooth dropped down into the patient's throat. 
"Sorry," said the doctor. "You're outside my specialty now. You should see a laryngologistl[lair'-ing-GOL'-:i-jist―a lary呕oor throat specialist]." 
By the time the unfortunate victim got to the laryngologist, the 
tooth had worked its way much further down. 
The laryngologist examined the man. 

"Sorry," said the doctor, "You're outside my specialty now. 
You should see a gastrologist![gas-TROL'-:i-jist-aostomach spe-
cialist]." 

Th. gastrologist X-rayed the patient. "Sorry," said the doctor, 
"the tooth has traveled into your lower intestines. You should see 
an enterologistl [ en'－t:i-ROL宅jisto―anointestinal specialist]." 
The enterologist took some X rays. "Sorry, the tooth isn't there. It must have gone down farther..You should see a proctologist! [prok-TOL'心－jist―aospecialist in diseases of the rectum; from Greek proktos, anus]." 
Our patient is now on the proctologist's examining table, in the 
proper elbow-knee position. The・ doctor has inserted a procto-
scope and is looking through it. 
"Good heavens, man! You've got a tooth up there! You should 
see a_ dentist!" 

5.oAural (AWR-:il) refers to the ears or to the sense or phe-nomenon of hearing. Mo叩uraloreproduction, as of music over a radio 
by phonograph record, for example,. has only one 
source oor f souna d, and technically should be called. monophonic (mon'-:i-FON'-ik)-monos, one, plus phone, sound. Binaural may mean having two ears or involving the use of both ears, or, recently, descriptive of sound from two sources, giving a stereo-phonic (steer'-ee-g..FQN'-ik) effect一stereos,odeep, solid, plus phone. 

6.oA noctambulist (nok-TAM'-by今list)owallcs at night―nox, noctis, night, plus ambulo, to walk. Noun: noctambullsm (nok-TAM'-by吵z如m).o
7.oSomnific 
(som-NIF'-ik): a somnific lecture, movie, effect,oetc. 
8.oCircumambulate (sur'-k:i皿AM'-by:i-layt').oTo circumnavi-gate is to sail around-circum, around, plus navis, ship. 




Check your learning 
PREFIX, ROOT MEANING EXAMPLE 
1. modusomodus operandi 
2. operandiomodus operandi 
3.ovivoomodus vivendi 
4.ocircum-circumscribe 
5.oscribo, scriptus circumscription 
6.osomnus somniloquent 

1. loquor somniloquence 
8. aur邱oaurist 9.ootos otol9gy 
10. proktos proctologist 
11. stereosostereophonic 
12.ophoneostereophonic 
13. monosomonaural 
14.obi-binaural 
15.onox, noctisonoctambulist 
16. ambuloonoctambulism 
17. facio (fie一）osomnific 

KEY: 1-mode, method, 2-of working, 3-to live, 4-around, 5-to write, 6-sleep; 7-to speak, to talk, 8-ear, 9-ear, IO-anus, 11-deep, solid, 12-sound, 13-one, 14-two, 15-night, 16-to walk, 17-to make 
CHAPTER 11: 

1.Matronymic (ma在NIM＇一ik).oOr, if you prefer to use theoGreek root for mother (meter, metr-), met;onymic. The Greek word metra, uterus, derives from meter, naturally enough, so metritis is inflammation of the uterus; metralgia is uterine pain; endometriosis (en'-do-mee'-tre心－sis)ois any abnormal condi-



tion of the uterine lining-endo, inside; metra, uterus; -osis, ab-normal condition. 
2.e(a) An incendiary statement, remark, speech, etc. figura-

tively enflames an audience, sets them afire, gets them excited, galvanizes them into action, etc. 
(b)eIncense (IN＇:.sens) is a substance that sends off aepleasant odor when burned-often, but not neces-
sarily, to mask unpleasant or telltale smells, as of ma-rijuana smoke, etc.e

(c)eTo incense (in-SENS') is to anger greatly, i.e., toe



"bum up." "I'm all burned up" is 
etymologically aneaccurate translation of "I'm incensed."e
3.e(a) Ardent (AHR'.. dant)一burningewith zeal, ambition, love, etc., as an ardent suitor, worker, etc. 

(b} Ardor (AHR'-d忒）玉eenoun form of ardent一bu-rn-ing passion, zeal, enthusiasm, etc. Alternate noun: ardency (AHR'也n-see).e

4.eMegaphone.e
5.eMegalopolis (meg'七LOP'令lis).e
6.ePolice. Politics.e
7.
Bibliokleptomaniac (bib'如心－klep'一氐MAY'-nee-ak): oneewho has an obsession for stealing books. Not too many years ago, an author titled his book, Steal This Book!, perhaps hoping to appeal to bibliokleptomaniacs; if th. appeal was successful enough, his royalty statements m四 haveebeen minuscule indeed! 




Gynekleptomaniac. Pedokleptomaniac. Androkleptomaniac. Demokleptomaniac. If you prefer to use shorter words, compulsive kidnapper or 

obsessive abductor will do as well for these words. 
8.eAcromaniac.eAgoramaniac.eClaustromaniac.e
9.eKleptophobe; pyrophobe,・ gynephobe; androphobe; demo-


phobe. Triskaidekaphobia (tris'-ki-dek'-a-FcY-bee-a) is the morbid 





515 
dread of the number 13, from Greek triskai, three, deka, ten, and phobia. 
10.eGnosiology (no'一See-OL'七jee),ethe science or study ofeknowledge. 
11.eAmadeus is love (Latin amor) God (Latin deus). Theo-philus is love (Greek philos) God (Greek theos). Gottlieb is love (German Lieb) God (Gerri也neGott). 

Perhaps this explains why he started composing at the age of four and wrote forty-one symphonies. 
12.eCellophane--cellulose made to be transparent, i.e., to showewhat's wrapped in it. 
13.eHypoglycemia (bi于o-gli-SEE'-me妇）一loweblood sugar,ea common ailment today, though I believe the AMA has called it a "non-disease" (Greek hypos, under; glykys, sweet; haima, blood). 


Baima, blood, is found in many English words, the root spelled either hem-ore-em. Here are a few, with their etymological inter-pretations: 

{a) Hemorrhage--excessive blood flow. 
(b) Anemia一”noeblood"-actually a pathological reduc-tion of red blood corpuscles. 
(c)eHematology-science of blood (and its diseases). 
(d)eHemophilia-"love of blood"--actually a hereditaryecondition, occurring in males, in which the blood clotsetoo slowly.e
(e)eHemoglobin一”bloodegobules”一actuallyethe red col-

oring matter of the red blood corpuscles.eHyperglycemia is the opposite of hypoglycemia. 
14.e(a) Pantheon (PAN'-thee-on')-aetemple built in Romeein 27 B.c. for "all the gods." 

(b)ePandemonium (pan'如－MCY-nee-am)-aewordesup-posedly coined by poet John Milton in Paradise Losteto signify the dwelling place of all the demons; noweany wild and noisy disorder.e
(c)ePanorama (pan＇今RAM'-:ieor pan＇一千RAH'-ma)-aeview (or a picture of such a view) all around-pan,eall, plus horama, view. The adjective:. panoramice(pan'令RAM'-ik).e


15.MOnarchy.rulebyo皿person.




Check your learning 
PREFIX, ROOT MEANING EXAMPLE 
1.amater, matrisamatronymic 
2. onymaametronymic 
3. meterametronymic 

4. metra metritis 
5.aendo-endometriosis 
6. incendo, incensusaincendiary 

1. ardoaardent 
8. megalo-megalopolis 
9.apolis police 
10.ademosademokleptomaniac 
11. akros 
aero maniac 
12.aagoraaagoramaniac 
13. claustrumaclaustromaniac 
14. triskaiatriskaidekaphobia 
15.adekaatrislaiidekaphobia 
16.agnosisagnosiology 


11.aamoraAmadeus 
18.adeusadeity 
19.atheosaTheophilus. 
20.aphilosahemophili a 
21.aphaneinacellophane. 
22.ahyposa
23.aglykys 
24.ahaimaahemorrhage 
25.aan-anen皿
26.ahyper-
27. panaPantheon 
28.ahoramaapanorama 
29.aarcheinamonarch 
30.amonos monarchy 


KEY: 1-mother, 2-name, 3-mother, 4-uterus, 5-inside, 6-to set on fire, 7-to blllll, 8-:-big, large, great, 9-city, IO-people, 11-highest, 12-market place, ・ 13--enclosed ・. place,a

517 


14-three, 15-ten, 16-knowledge, 17-love, 18-God, 
19-God, 20-love, 21-toeshow, 22-under, 23-sweet,e24-blood,25-not, negative, 26-over, 27-all,2.view,e29-to. rule, 30-onee

CHAPTER 12: 

1.eSurvive. Noun: survival.e
2.eVivarium (vi-VA双ee-3m)--enclosedearea in which plantseand (small) animals live in conditions resembling their natural habitat. The.suffix -ium usually signifies place where-solarium, a place for the sun to enter, or where one can sunbathe; aquarium, a-place for water (Latin aqua, water), or fish tank; podium, a place for the feet (Greek podos, foot), or spe吐er'seplatform; au-ditorium, a place for hearing (or listening to) concerts, plays, etc. (Latin audio, to hear). 
3.eVita (VI勺3),eetymologically, life, is one's professional ore




career resume: 
4.e(a) Unicorn (Latin comu, horn).e
(b)eUniform.e
(c)eUnify (-fy, fromfacio, to make).e
(d)eUnity.e
(e)eUnicycle (Greek kyklos, circle, wheel).e




5.eAnniversary-a year has turned.e


6: (a) Universe--everything turning as one.e
(b)'University-highest institute of education―universal subjects taught, learned, etc., i.e., the curriculum 
covers the universe, is in no way restricted, etc. 
7.e(a) Interstate.e
(b)eInternational.e
(c)eIntermediate.e
(d)eInterrupt (Latin rumpo, ruptus, to break).e
(e)eInterpersonal.e


518 



8. (a) Intrastate;e
(b)elntranational. 
(c)elntrapersonal or intrapsychic.e
(d) Intramuscular.e


Check your learning 
PREFI., ROOT MEANING EXAMPLE 
1. vivo survive 
2.epodosepodium' 
3. vita vita 
4.ecornu unicorn 
5.ekyklos unicycle 
6.eannus anniversary 
7.everto, versus universe
8. unuseuniversity 
9. inter-interstate 
10. intra-intrapsychic 

..
KEY: 1-to live, 2-foot, 3-Iife, 4-horn, 5-circle, wheel, 6-year, ?.to turn, 8-one, 9-between, 10-within 

CHAPTER 14: 
1. "View of Death." 
2.eThanatology.e
3. (a) Prophesy (PROF'-.忒）．e

(b) Prophecy (PROF'－:;,-see).e(c)Prophet (PROF'创）．e
4.e(a) Predict.e




disease" (tensions, insecurities, conflicts) onereturning home after leaving the service. Some veterans could not face the freedom and responsibilities of being on their own. The (b) Prediction.5. Nostopathy―“



519 

Anny, Navy, or Air Force had fed and clothed them and made decisions for them; now they bad to readjust to civilian life. 
6.e(a) Vulpicide.e
(b)eLupicide.e(c)Fel比ide.e
(d)eUrsicide.e

7.e(a) Piscivorous(尸SW勺r-as).e
(b)eInsectivorous (in'-sek-TIV'-ar-Qs).e
8.eCanarie.r,what else?e
9.ePotentiate (p:>-TEN'-shee-ayt').e

Check your learning 
PREFIX, ROOT  MEANING  EXAMPLE  
1.ethanatose thanatology  
2.elogose thanatology  
3.eopsise Thanatopsis  
4.ephemee prophecy  
5.epro- prophet  
6.epre- predict  
7.edico, dictuse predict  
8.enostose nostopathy  
9.epathos_e nostopathy  
10.evulpuse vulpicide  
11.elupuse12.efellse luicidepfelicide  
13.eUTSUSe ursicide  
14.episcise piscivorous  
15.eVOTOe insectivorous  
16.ecaedo (-cide)e insecticide  
11.ecanise18.epotens, potentise canary potentiate  

KEY: 1--death, 2女ience,estudy, 3-view, 4-voice, 5-beforehand 6-before, 7一toesay or tell, 8-areturn, 9--disease, 10-fox, 11一wolf,e12---cat, 1工bear,e14-fish, 15--devour, 16-to kill (killing), 17--dog, 18-powe血




CHAPTER 15: 
1.oSy叩gogue.o
2.oSymbiosis (sim'-b沁'-sis).oAdjective: symbiotic (sim'-bI-OT'-ik). 


People (for example lovers, spouses, parent and child, etc.) also may live in a symbiotic relationship, each depending on the other for important services, emotional needs, etc.; each also pro-viding these for the other. 
3. Symphony; symphonic.o
4. Symmetry (SIM＇一a-tree);osymmetrical (s于MET'-ra-kal)oorosymmetric (s于MET'-rik).o
5.oSyndrome (SIN'-drom).o
6. Hippodrome (HIP'仑dro而）；theoword today is often usedoas.the name of a movie theater or other place of entertainment. 


1. Hipp_opotamus.o




Check your learning 
PREFIX, ROOT MEANING EXAMPLE 
1. syn-
synagogue 
2.oagogos synagogue 
3.obiososymbiosis 
4.ophoneosymphonic 
5. metronosymmetry 
6.odromososyndrome 

1. hippos hippodrome 
8.opotamosohippopotamus 


CHAPTER 16: 

1.Non sequitur (non SEK'-w今血）一”itedoes not follow."e
2.e(a) Second―following・ after the first.e
(b)eConsecutive--following in proper ordere
(c)ePersecute--to follow (i.e., pursue) through andethrough; hence to annoy, harass continually for no goodereason.e
(d)eProsecute―to follow before; hence to pursue (some-thing) diligently or vigorously in order to complete itesuccessfully (prosecute a campaign); or to start, or en-gage in, legal proceedings against, especially in an of-五cialecapacity.e



3.e(a) Superior.e

(b)eSuperficial.e
(c)eSuperfluous（跻PUR'-fl沉心s).eNoun: superfluity (s忍pgr-FLOO宅tee).e
(d)eSupernatural.e
(e)eSupervise.e

4.e(a) Cadence (KAY'如ns)一falleand rise of the voice inespeaking; hence inflection; rhythm beat, etc. of sound or music. Adjective: cadent (KAY'如nt).e
(b)eOccidental (ok'一sg..DEN＇七1)--etymologically,efalling. Hence relating to western countries, since the sun falls in the west; also, a native of such a country. Noun: Oc-cident (OK'一S吐咄）．Theerises in the east, 


巨tinorior, to rise, is the origin sun of the Orient, oriental, so etc., and also of the verb orient (AW'-ree-ent'). To or-ient is to adjust to a place or situation; etymologically, to turn, or face, east. Noun: orientation. "Pm finally oriented" does not mean that I'm eastemized or facing east, but that I have become familiar with, and comfort-able in, a place,job, situation, etc. So to disorient (dis-AW'-ree-ent') is to remove (someone's) orientation, or to confuse or bewilder, especially in reference to locality, direction, etc. Noun: disorientation. 



(c)eDeciduous (da-SU'-.噬）一fallingedown (Latin prefixede-). This adjective refers to trees whose leaves falle
(down) every autumn..(d)Incident一thatwhich falls upon, befalls, or happens. 
(e)eAccident―that which falls to (ac-is a respelling of ad-,eto, toward) someone or something (by chance).(f)Coincidence--co-is a respelling of con-, together. A
coincidence occurs when two things befall, or happen,etogether, or at the same time, and by chance.e

5.eIndolent (IN＇ -d吵nt).eNoun: indolence (IN'-d吵ns).e
6. Dolores-一fromeSpanish Mar比deelos Dolores, Mary of the Sorrows; hence, I guess, someone who is generally sorrowful, though the few Doloreses I have known do not live up to their 

etymology.  
Check your learning  
PREFIX, ROOT  MEANIN.G  EXAMPLE  
1.esequor, secutuse2.eper-3.epro-4.esuper-5.efluoe6.ecadoe non sequitur, second persecute prosecute superior superfluous cadence  
7.eoriore Orient  
8.. dis- disorient  
9.ead-(ac-)e10.edoleoe11.ein- accident indolent indolence  

KEY: 1-to follow, 2-through, 3-beforehand, 4-above, 5-to flow, 6-to fall, 7-to rise, 8-negative prefix, 9一to,etoward, 10-toesuffer, to grieve, 11-negative prefixe

523 



19 


BOW TO KEEP,BUILDING YOUR VOCABULARY 

At commencement exercises, whether in elementary school, high school, orcollege, at least one of the spealcers will inevitably point out to the graduates that this is not the end―not by a long shot. It is only the beginning; that's why it is called "commencement," etc., etc. 
Of course the speaker is right―no educative process is ever the end; it is always the beginning of more education, more learning, moreliving. 
And that is the case here. What has happened to you as a result of your reaction to the material and suggestions in this book is only the beginning of your development. To stop increasing your vocabulary is to stop your intellectual growth. You will wish, I am sure, to continue growing intellectually as long as you remain alive. And with the momentum that your weeks of hard work have provided, continuing wii'not be at all difficult. 
Let me offer, as a summary of all I have said throughout the book, a recapitulation of the steps you must take so that your vo-cabulary will keep growing and growing. 

STEP ONE. You must become actively receptive to newwords. Words won't come chasing after you一you must train yourself 
to be on a constant lookout, in your reading and listening, for any 



STEP 1WO. You must read more. 
As an adult, you will find most of the sources of your supply of new words in books and magazines. Is your reading today largely restricted to a quick perusal of the daily newspaper? Then you will have to change your habits. If your aim is to have a superior vocabulary, you will have to make the time to read at least one book and several magazines every week. Not just this week and next week一buteevery week for the rest of your life. I have never met a single. person who possessed a rich vocabulary who was not also an omnivorous reader. 
STEP THREE. You must learn to add to your own vocabulary the new words you meet in your reading. 
When you see an unfamiliar word in a book or magazine, do not skip over it impatiently. Instead, pause for a moment and say it over to yourself-get used to its sound and appearance. Then puzzle out its possible meaning in the context.of the sentence. Whether you come to the right conclusion or not, whether indeed you are able to come to any intelligent conclusion at all, is of no importance. What is important is that you are, by this process, becoming superconscious of the word. As a result, you will sud-
denly notice that this very word pops up unexpectedly again and again in all your reading―for you now have a mind-set for it. And of course after you've seen it a few times, you will know fairly accurately not only what it means but the many ways in which it can be used. 
STEP FOUR, You must open your mind to new ideas. Every word you know is the translation of an idea. 
may 
possibly be unknown to you―psychology, semantics, science, 
Think for a few minutes of the areas of human knowledge that 

plest to the most abstruse, there are several books written for the average, untrained lay reader that will give you both a good grasp of the subject and at the same time add immeasurably to your vo-cabulary. College students 
have large vocabularies because 
they 

are required to expose themselves constantly to new areas of learning. You must do the same. 
STEP FIVE. You must set a goal. 

If you do nothing about your vocabulary, you will learn, at most, twenty-five to fifty new words in the next twelve months. By conscious effort you c:皿 learneseveral tho匹and.eSet yourself a goal of finding several new words every day; This may sound am. bitious-but you will discover as soon as you start actively look-ing for new words in your reading, and actively doing reading of a more challenging type, that new words are all around you一thate
is, if you're ready for them. And understand this: vocabulary building snowballs. The results of each new day's search will be greater and greater-:0nce you provide the necessary initial push, once you gain momentum, once you become addicted to looking for, finding, and taking possession of new words. 
And this is one addiction well worth cultivating! 




APPENDIX 

SOME ESOTERIC PHOBIAS 


{You will recognize many of the 
Greek roots on which these words 

are constructed) 
air: aerophobia animals: zoophobia beauty: callophobia birth: genophobia blood: hematophobia breasts: mastophobia burglars: scelerophobia burial alive: taphephobia eats: ailurophobia change: neophobia childbirth: maieusiophobia children: pedophobia colors: chromophobia crowds: ochlophobia darkness: nyctophobia death: thanatophobia depths: bathophobia disease: pathophobia doctors: iatrophobia dogs: cynophobia dying: thanatophobia emp血ess: kenophobia 



everything: pantophobia eyes: ophthalmophobia fear: phobophobia feces: coprophobia feet: podophobia female genitals: eurotophobia filth: mysophobia fire: pyrophobia fish: ichthyophobia fog: homichlophobia food: cibophobia foreigners: xenophobia 
"freak..: teratophobia frogs: batrachophobia 

. ghosts: phasmophobia hands: chirophobia hair: trichophobia l1ealers or healing: iatrophobia heat: thermophobia heU: stygiophobia horses: hippophobia insects: entomophobia 





knives: aichmopbobia knowledge: gnosiophobia large things: megalophobia light: pbotophobia lightning: astrophobia males: androphobia many things: polyphobia marriage: gamop.obia medicine: pharmacophobia mice: musophobia mirrors: spectrophobia mobs: ochlophobia motllerbood: metrophobia motion: kinesophobia nakedness: gymnophobia needles: belonophobia newness: neophobia night: nyctophobia oceans: thalassophobia odors: osmophobia old age: geraphobia oldmen: gerontophobia pain: algophobia; odynophobia 
/ people: demophobia plants:-botanophobia pleasure: hedonophobia poison: to五cophobia poverty: peniophobia prostitutes: pomophobia punishment: poinophobia rain: ombrophobia red: erythrophobia rivers: potamophobia robbers: harpaxophobia sameness: homophobia sex: genophobia sexual intercourse: coitophobia sinning: peccatophobia skin: dermatophobia sleep: hypnophobia small things: microphobia smothering: pnigerophobia snakes: ophidiophobia_ snow: chionophobia solitude: autophobia; mono-



phobia sounds: acousticophobia speaking: lalophobia speaking aloud: phonophobia speech: logophobia spiders: arachneophobia stairs: climacophobia stars: siderophobia stealing: kleptophobia stillness: eremiophobia strangers: xenophobia strength: sthenophobia study: logophobia sunlight: heliophobia tapewonus: taeniophobia taste: geumophobia teeth: odontophobia thieves: kleptophobia thinking: phronemophobia thirteen (the number): triskaidek-
aphobia thirst: dipsophobia thunder. brontophobia 血e: chronophobia togetherness: synophobia travel: hodophobia ugliness: cacophobia voices: phemophobia vomiting: emetophobia walking: basiphobia watching: scoptophobia water: hydrophobia 


・ weakness: asthenophobia wealth: plutophobia wind: anemophobia women: gynephobia words: logopbobia work: ergophobia呻ing: graphophobia 



ACB80”“执W
Not sure what to 『ead next? 
Visit Pocket Books online at www.simonsays.com 
addin su esti ns for
yRen yog gg o
ou a ur readin rou p
g g
New relea se news 
Au thor appea ra nces Online chats with your favorite writers Specia l of fers Ord er books online And mu ch. much morel 
AC8SCOM痄叩

l'14弘
AWOL. Pass the buck. Blitz. Panic Button. 
One of the special traits of American English is its ablility to absorb new words and metamorphize new meanings for existing words. A primary impetus for this has always been war. In his new book, WAR SI.ANG, noted word historian and author Paul Dickson offers the first comprehensive collection of fighting words and phrases _used by Americans at war. 
`＇｀llSIAN`;
American Fighting Words and Phrases from the Civil War to the Gulf War 
by 
Paul Dickson 
Available front 
POCKET B O O K S 
995-01 


Do You Always Use the Right Word? 
Correctly?
.Do You Know How to Avoid Illiterate Expres-sions? 
rassing Mistakes? If the answer to any of these questions is NO, you need .y. Now Thor-oughly revised to eliminate outmoded refer-encesand to reflect current idioms, it remains the best and quickest means to a better vocabu-
.一一.Can You Pronounce It andSpell It .Do You Speak Grammatically, W助outEmbar-test will Numerousprogress check. ends with a 
lary in the English language. Each chapter ends with review. Each section 
help you increase and retain the knowledge you acquire. .Y does more than just add wo『dsto your vocabulary. It teaches ideas and amethod of broadening knowledge as an integral part of the vocabulary building process. 
Re1lster anllne 11 www.slmonuys.com for mare Information on this and othe『g『ea t b o o k s. 
$6.99 U.S./ $7.99 Can. 
・

vsN$A6l n1王＝lO3U-Ud
99 
506 
川.
眉
9911 
瞿 
97 

ii g 
7
9 



